EARLY GRADUATION
Students wishing to graduate early should meet with their 
counselor to determine eligibility. Once it is determined  
that the student can meet graduation requirements earlier 
than the scheduled semester of graduation, the student,  
with parent/guardian approval, must complete an “Intent  
to Graduate Early” form available online.
GRADING
Our grading model measures the student’s mastery 
of the course’s skills and standards. The final grade 
is a determination of the student’s body of work with 
consideration of their recent trend.
Because our grading model uses proficiency scales to  
collect accurate evidence of student performance and  
growth, students can reflect on and grow their knowledge  
and skills throughout the semester. At the end of the semester, 
the teacher reviews the body of evidence presented by each 
student and determines a letter grade. Student grades are 
based on evidence of student proficiency in course skills  
and content standards.
The purpose of grades is to provide the teacher, student  
and parents/guardians as accurate a picture as possible of  
the student’s competence in course skills and to encourage  
a dialogue about how the student can grow in the content in 
the class. Additionally, each assessment provides feedback 
for the student about what skills and standards they mastered 
and which they need more work on. If at any point the student 
is reassessed on a course standard and shows a higher level of 
proficiency, this will be reflected in the teacher grade book.
Please visit https://www.d125.org/academics/grading for 
more details about how the final letter grade is calculated  
and communicated.
COURSE DESCRIPTION
Within the first five days of the semester, all teachers will 
provide students with a course description. This description 
will explain the general goals of the course, the specific 
knowledge and skills acquired as a result of the course, the 
activities that will be included and the procedures for grading.
GRADE POINT AVERAGE
Both a weighted and an unweighted grade point average are 
calculated for each student at the conclusion of each semester 
and again a/f_ter summer school.
■	 Weighted grade point average is calculated using the 
weights assigned to the grades in the chart below.
■	 Unweighted grade point average is calculated by 
assigning college prep grade points to all grades that 
are calculated into the grade point average, regardless 
of their level.
   A B C D F
COLLEGE PREP  4.0 3.0 2.0 1.0 0
ACCELERATED   4.5 3.5 2.5 1.5 0
AP/HONORS    5.0 4.0 3.0 2.0 0
COLLEGE PREP COURSES
College prep courses provide students with the traditional 
college preparatory program. These courses are designed 
to prepare the student for entrance into college and for 
academic success in the college classroom. Students have 
an opportunity to pursue four years of English, Mathematics, 
Science, Social Studies and Multilingual Learning.
HONORS/ACCELERATED COURSES
These courses enable students to prepare for and pursue 
college-level studies while still in high school. Students who 
complete honors/accelerated level courses may have the 
opportunity to earn college credit or placement through  
AP exams.
ADVANCED PLACEMENT (AP) COURSES
Students have the opportunity to complete advanced 
placement courses in most subject areas. The content of these 
college-level courses is determined by the College Board. 
Students who score well on these exams may be awarded 
college credit in many of the nation’s colleges and universities. 
In assessing a student’s application, many colleges also look 
favorably upon courses designated as AP since these courses 
represent more rigorous content than the standard high 
school curriculum. Students are encouraged to investigate the 
AP policy of the college of their choice. In preparation for some 
AP courses at Stevenson High School, students may need to 
complete summer work. Summer assignments are available  
in the late spring via the school’s website.
ADLAI E. STEVENSON HIGH SCHOOL8