MATHEMATICS68
AP CALCULUS AB
MTH471–Semester 1 MTH472–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: ANY AP PRECALCULUS COURSE 
Credit: Honors
AP Calculus AB (MTH471/472) is a full-year capstone course 
designed to be the equivalent of the first semester of college 
calculus. Calculus focuses on the study of rates of change, 
limits and the analysis of functions. It is widely applicable to 
various Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics 
(STEM) disciplines. Calculus is also used to understand 
dynamic phenomena in business, finance and the social 
sciences. AP Calculus AB focuses on connecting mathematical 
representations (verbal, graphical, algebraic and numeric) so 
that relationships among topics of study are elucidated. In 
addition, students will apply prior skills in algebraic reasoning 
to complex problems presented in bare and real-world 
contexts. Students will also apply and strengthen skills around 
mathematical justification (reasoning) and communication 
in written form. AP Calculus AB focuses on diﬀerential and 
integral calculus. The course design prepares students for 
the College Board AP Calculus AB Exam. AP Calculus AB 
(MTH471/472) is not appropriate for students seeking to take 
AP Calculus BC (MTH491/492).
AP CALCULUS BC
MTH491–Semester 1 MTH492–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year  
Prerequisite: AP Precalculus BC
Credit: Honors
AP Calculus BC (MTH491/492) attends to all the learning 
outcomes of AP Calculus AB (MTH471/472) and is a full-year 
capstone course designed to be the equivalent of the first 
and second semesters of college calculus. In addition, this 
course extends the content and skills of AP Calculus AB to 
parametrically defined curves, polar curves and vector-valued 
functions, develops additional integration techniques and 
applications, and explores sequences and series. The course 
design prepares students for the College Board AP Calculus 
BC Exam. The course is closed to students who have not 
completed AP Precalculus BC. Successfully completing this 
course will prepare students for a college-level experience in 
College Multivariable Calculus (MTH591) and College Linear 
Algebra (MTH592).
COLLEGE MUL TIVARIABLE CALCULUS 
MTH591–Semester 1 ONLY
Open to: 11-12 ONE SEMESTER
Prerequisite: AP Calculus BC Credit: Honors
College Multivariable Calculus (MTH591) is a one-semester 
capstone course designed to be equivalent to a third-semester 
college calculus. The distinctive focus of this course is the 
attention to applying the tools of calculus to multidimensional 
space, whereas previous coursework limited students to  
one- or two-dimensional experiences. This introductory 
course exposes students to curves, surfaces, vector fields, 
partial derivatives, advanced integrals (line, multi-variable, 
surface), curl and divergence. Students who successfully 
demonstrate the complete proficiencies of the course may 
seek to petition future college/university programs for course 
credits or waivers. A current syllabus will be provided. This 
course is not aﬀiliated with a dual-credit or articulated  
credit program.
COLLEGE LINEAR ALGEBRA 
MTH592–Semester 2 only
Open to: 11-12 one semester
Prerequisite: AP Calculus BC Credit: Honors
College Linear Algebra (MTH592) is a one-semester capstone 
college-level course that applies matrix and linear algebra 
techniques to model and analyze phenomena presented in 
concrete and abstract settings. The study of linear algebra 
has valuable applications within the computational, physical 
and social sciences. Numeric, computational and estimation 
techniques will be used to arrive at empirical and theoretical 
conclusions that support students’ understanding of matrix 
properties and operations. Mathematical reasoning will be 
strengthened through the writing of formal and informal 
proofs. Topics of study include a system of equations, 
matrix operations, determinants, inverses, vector spaces, 
inner product spaces, orthogonality, linear transformations, 
eigenvalues, eigenvectors, matrix diagonalization and 
quadratic forms. The course emphasizes skills in reading, 
writing and communicating mathematics verbally and 
analytically. Students who successfully demonstrate the 
complete proficiencies of the course may seek to petition 
future college/university programs for course credits or 
waivers. A current syllabus will be provided. This course is not 
aﬀiliated with a dual-credit or articulated credit program.