FINE ARTS—MEDIA ARTS48
PHOTOGRAPHY 1 
GPA WAIVER OPTION 
ART401–Semester 1 ART402–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
Note: Students may use their own DSLR; however, students may  
check out school-owned cameras for assignments. 
This foundational course covers basic concepts and  
practice of digital photography, including understanding 
and use of the camera, lenses and other basic photographic 
equipment. The course will address aesthetic principles as 
they relate to composition, space, exposure, light and color. 
An introduction to Adobe Photoshop will be studied in this 
course. Technological requirements of digital formats will 
be addressed. Basic digital manipulations of images will be 
taught in preparation for creating finished art. 
PHOTOGRAPHY 2
GPA WAIVER OPTION  
ART411–Semester 1 ART412–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: Photography 1 credit: College prep
Note: Students may use their own DSLR/Apple Pencil/tripod;  
however, students may check out a school-owned DSLR, Apple Pencil 
and/or tripod for assignments.  
This course is designed to refine students’ digital  
photographic skills and aesthetic judgment as they relate to 
composition, space, exposure, light and color. Special eﬀects, 
studio lighting, portraiture, night photography, use of Adobe 
Photoshop, the Creative Suite and Procreate are areas studied 
in this course. Technological requirements of digital formats 
and printing will be addressed.
ADVANCED PHOTOGRAPHY AND DIGITAL DESIGN
ART421–Semester 1 ART422–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12  Full Year
Prerequisite: Photography 1, Photography 2 
or 
Digital Art and Design 1, Digital Art and Design 2
or 
2d ANIMATION AND/OR 3D ANIMATION
Credit: Accelerated
Note: Students may use their own DSLR/Apple Pencil/tripod;  
however, students may check out a school-owned DSLR, Apple Pencil 
and/or tripod for assignments. 
This course oﬀers an advanced study of photography  
and/or digital design for students who want to pursue image 
making in a serious manner. Students on the photography 
track are introduced to large format printing, DSLR camera 
handling skills and advanced techniques using Adobe 
Photoshop and the Creative Suite. Students on the design 
track will be developing a portfolio of digital drawings and 
designs using the Adobe Creative Suite and the Procreate 
drawing app. Design students will also explore methods of 
digital photography to enhance their layout, formatting and 
design skills. Students will explore brainstorming methods to 
develop stronger concepts and common visual connections 
through the development of a series of work. Students will 
compile a portfolio and assemble a one-person show to be 
exhibited in the spring. 
AP PHOTOGRAPHY AND DIGITAL DESIGN
ART871–Semester 1 ART872–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Advanced Photography and Digital Design
Credit: honors
Note: Students may use their own DSLR/Apple Pencil/tripod;  
however, students may check out a school-owned DSLR, Apple Pencil 
and/or tripod for assignments.
This course oﬀers digital 2D design drawing and painting 
students a concentrated program, which enables them to 
apply for college credit in art. Emphasis is centered on studio 
work, the preparation of a portfolio and the submission of a 
portfolio for potential AP credit. In the spring, each student 
will exhibit their work in a one-person show. This course may 
be repeated for credit.