 COMMITMENT TO SELF
 •  Pursue a balanced high school experience
 •  Foster responsible, healthy and ethical  
  decision-making skills 
 •  Develop a sense of resilience and self-awareness
 •  Demonstrate self-empowered and life-ready skills
 COMMITMENT TO OTHERS
 •  Celebrate, honor and respect diverse people  
  and perspectives
 •  Develop a sense of empathy for those around them 
 •  Serve local, national and global communities
 •  Engage in civic duties and responsibilities
 COMMITMENT TO LEARNING
 •  Strive for continuous improvement
 •  Foster a curious, creative and innovative mind
 •  Sustain a growth mindset when facing new challenges 
 •  Develop problem-solving and reflective skills
 •  Collaborate and learn from and with others
OUR STUDENTS WILL COMMIT TO THE FOLLOWING:
ADLAI E. STEVENSON HIGH SCHOOL   |   HOME OF THE PATRIOTS 
PORTRAIT OF A STEVENSON GRADUATE VISION STATEMENT
Our tradition of sustained excellence has been built upon a foundation  
of the search for continuous improvement and lifelong learning.  
This vision statement reflects what we hope to become as a school 
community. It is our vision for the future. 
Our vision statement rests upon five pillars: curriculum; equity, access  
and inclusivity; professional learning community; culture for learning;  
and community engagement. Each pillar is detailed below.
CURRICULUM
In order to ensure “Success for Every Student, ” we will implement a 
guaranteed, viable and rigorous curriculum that meets the evolving  
needs of our students while prioritizing active engagement and reflective  
problem-solving. Our curriculum will encourage students to scrutinize 
evidence of their learning, challenge their thinking and forge new 
understandings. We will help students gain confidence, discover  
their talents and develop the skills they need to succeed in life.
EQUITY, ACCESS AND INCLUSIVITY
In order to ensure “Success for Every Student, ” we will recognize every 
student as a valued individual. Students will learn in a safe, inclusive space, 
where they are taught to understand the value of their own experiences in 
relation to other, diverse perspectives. We will be relentless in removing 
barriers to full equity, access and inclusivity in our curricular and  
co-curricular programming. We will establish high academic and  
behavioral expectations and we will provide students with the supports 
required to help them meet or exceed those expectations.
PROFESSIONAL LEARNING COMMUNITY
In order to ensure “Success for Every Student, ” we will sustain a culture 
focused on learning, collaboration and results. Our culture of continuous 
improvement will be driven by collective inquiry, innovative instructional 
practices and learning-centered assessment and grading practices. We will 
implement impactful intervention strategies that provide students with more 
time and support when needed in order to ensure learning and achievement. 
As a model Professional Learning Community, we will participate in state, 
national and global initiatives focused on improving educational outcomes.
CULTURE FOR LEARNING
In order to ensure “Success for Every Student, ” all decision-making  
processes will be based on the best interests of our students and their 
learning. We will promote social-emotional learning and a healthy life 
balance for all students as we nurture continuous improvement and growth 
in their curricular and co-curricular experiences. We will encourage students 
to set attainable and aspirational goals, learn the value of hard work  
and dedication and embrace the challenges and opportunities they  
will experience in high school and beyond.
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
In order to ensure “Success for Every Student, ” we will actively engage  
and support the Stevenson High School community. We value and respect 
our community’s diverse perspectives and will provide opportunities for 
parents/guardians and others to inform and support the vision and values 
of our school. We will forge collaborative partnerships with those who share 
expertise, providing authentic and innovative student-learning experiences. 
We are committed to utilizing our resources and facilities to develop and 
implement educational and recreational opportunities as we work to 
connect the community and school.