FINE ARTS—MUSIC58
GENERAL MUSIC COURSES
PIANO 1
GPA WAIVER OPTION 
MUS401–Semester 1 MUS402–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
This course is designed for students of all skill levels, from 
non-experienced through advanced. This class will introduce 
students to music notation, basic music theory, keyboard 
technique and music terminology through the study of 
keyboard repertoire. Students will work independently, 
collaboratively and with instructor guidance to shape their 
musical goals, including selecting their own music to learn 
and perform. Students repeating this course or students with 
theory and composition experiences will be able to experience 
more advanced musical topics. This course may be repeated 
for credit.
MUSIC PRODUCTION 1
GPA WAIVER OPTION 
MUS431–Semester 1 MUS432–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
This course will explore concepts in production, recording, 
performance, audio engineering, music business, sound 
design, music marketing and more. Students will have access 
to music production so/f_tware, instruments and recording 
equipment in order to create, edit and mix the music that 
interests them. Music Production 1 is open to all students 
with an interest in music, no prior experience is necessary. 
All students will have the option to participate in a Music 
Production Showcase at the end of the semester.
 MUSIC PRODUCTION 2
GPA WAIVER OPTION 
MUS451–Semester 1 MUS452–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: Music Production 1 or approval of instructor
Credit: College prep
Music Production 2 is a course designed for students 
interested in furthering their study and exploration of music 
production and the music industry. Students will pursue more 
advanced concepts and techniques resulting in a substantial 
amount of original music by the end of the course. Students 
will have access to music production so/f_tware, instruments 
and recording equipment in order to create, edit and mix the 
music that interests them. All students will participate in a 
Music Production Showcase at the end of the semester. 
ADVANCED MUSIC PRODUCTION
DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE WITH LOYOLA UNIVERSITY CHICAGO 
GPA WAIVER OPTION 
MUS471–Semester 1 MUS472–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Music Production 2 or Placement by Instructor
Credit: HONORS
Advanced Music Production is a course designed for students 
interested in pursuing advanced concepts in music production. 
This course will provide real world experiences to students 
and prepare them to participate in the music industry a/f_ter 
high school and beyond. Students in this course will get 
to experience the process of recording original music in a 
professional studio setting and all students will participate 
in a Music Production Showcase at the end of each semester. 
Students will have access to music production so/f_tware, 
instruments and recording equipment both at home and at 
school. This course may be repeated for credit.
AP MUSIC THEORY
MUS801–Semester 1 MUS802–Semester 2 
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Membership in either Instrumental or Vocal 
Ensemble or approval of instructor
Credit: honors
This course is designed for the advanced musician who  
is interested in enhancing their music ability through a 
rigorous study of Western music theory. Students learn the 
basics of tonal harmony, including: chord construction,  
four-part voice writing, harmonic analysis and harmonic 
sequence. Students also study ear training, sight singing, 
melodic, rhythmic and harmonic dictation, 20th century 
techniques and form/structure. Students who enroll in this 
course will be prepared to take the AP Music Theory exam in 
May, as well as entrance examinations given by schools of 
music for entering music majors/minors.