EARTH SCIENCE DUAL CREDIT
DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE AT NO COST THROUGH COLLEGE OF 
LAKE COUNTY
SCI671–Semester 1  SCI672–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12  Full Year 
Prerequisite: NONE 
Credit: Honors (Dual Credit) Physical Science 
In this lab-based course, students explore geology, 
meteorology and astronomy. Students will work collabora-
tively and engage with the science and engineering practices. 
This course is a dual-credit, college-level science course where 
students can earn college credit hours at no cost through the 
College of Lake County.
AP PHYSICS 1
SCI611–Semester 1 SCI612–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: None 
Credit: honors physical science
EARLY BIRD OPTION
SCI61E1–Semester 1 SCI61E2–Semester 2
In this 1.5 period lab-based course, students explore linear, 
circular and simple harmonic motion, forces, energy, 
momentum, rotation and fluids. Students will work 
collaboratively and engage with the science and engineering 
practices. This course can fulfill students’ graduation 
requirement for two semesters of physical science and is 
beneficial for students considering majors or careers in 
science or engineering. Students who enroll in this course will 
be prepared to take the AP Physics 1 exam in May. 
AP PHYSICS 2
SCI681–Semester 1 SCI682–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: AP Physics 1 or Physics
Credit: honors physical science
In this lab-based course, students explore electrostatics, 
circuits, electromagnetism, thermodynamics, waves and 
sound, optics and modern physics topics. Students will work 
collaboratively and engage with the science and engineering 
practices. This course is beneficial for students considering 
majors or careers in science or engineering. Students who 
enroll in this course will be prepared to take the AP Physics 2 
exam in May. 
AP BIOLOGY
SCI631–Semester 1 SCI632–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: NONE
Credit: Honors Biological science
EARLY BIRD OPTION
SCI63E1–Semester 1 SCI63E2–Semester 2
In this 1.5 period lab-based course, students explore 
evolution, proteins, cell evolution, DNA, photosynthesis, 
ecology, cellular respiration, gene expression, gene regulation, 
genetics and cell signaling. Students will work collaboratively 
and engage with the science and engineering practices. This 
course can fulfill students’ graduation requirement for two 
semesters of biological science and is beneficial for students 
considering majors or careers in science or health-related 
fields. Students who enroll in this course will be prepared to 
take the AP Biology exam in May.
SCIENCE90