SCIENCE 91
AP ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE
SCI641–Semester 1 SCI642–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: NONE 
Credit: Honors Biological science, honors physical science 
In this lab-based course, students explore earth systems, 
ecology, populations, energy use, global warming and 
pollution. Students will work collaboratively and engage with 
the science and engineering practices. This course takes field 
trips throughout the year. Students who enroll in this course 
will be prepared to take the AP Environmental Science exam 
in May. 
AP CHEMISTRY
SCI651–Semester 1 SCI652–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: NONE
Credit: honors physical science
EARLY BIRD OPTION
SCI65E1–Semester 1 SCI65E2–Semester 2
In this 1.5 period lab-based course, students explore chemical 
bonding, the behavior of gases, the structure of matter, kinetic 
theory, solutions, acid-base chemistry, electrochemistry, 
molecular geometry, thermodynamics and equilibrium. 
Students will work collaboratively and engage with the science 
and engineering practices. This course can fulfill students’ 
graduation requirement for two semesters of physical science 
and is beneficial for students considering majors in science. 
Students who enroll in this course will be prepared to take the 
AP Chemistry exam in May.
AP PHYSICS C
SCI661–Semester 1 SCI662–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: AP Physics 1 or AP Physics 2, and completion or 
concurrent enrollment in AP Calculus AB or BC, or approval  
of director
Credit: honors physical science
EARLY BIRD OPTION
SCI66E1–Semester 1 SCI66E2–Semester 2
In this 1.5 period lab-based course, students explore linear, 
rotational, and simple harmonic motion; forces; energy; 
momentum; electrostatics; DC circuits; magnetostatics; and 
electromagnetic induction. Students will work collaboratively 
and engage with the science and engineering practices. This 
course is beneficial for students considering majors or careers 
in science or engineering. Students who enroll in this course 
will be prepared to take both the AP Physics C Mechanics and 
AP Physics C Electricity and Magnetism exams in May. 