MATHEMATICS66
AP PRECALCULUS 
MTH411–Semester 1 MTH412–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: PRECALCULUS OR ALGEBRA 2 AB/BC
Credit: Honors
AP Precalculus AB (MTH411/412) is aligned with the  
College Board’s expectations to prepare students for future  
studies in calculus. The course design prepares students  
for the College Board AP Precalculus Exam. This course is  
ideal for students preparing to complete one semester of 
college calculus in high school or enroll in calculus a/f_ter 
graduation. This course represents students’ third course 
in algebraic thinking and extends students’ previous 
understanding of polynomial, rational, exponential, 
logarithmic, trigonometric and polar functions. Learning 
to model real-world data, connect representations, master 
symbolic manipulations and apply functions to model 
dynamic change will prepare students for the future study  
of calculus. As required by the College Board, please note  
that this course will appear as AP Precalculus on the  
student’s transcript.
Sophomore and Junior Students: Successfully completing  
this course with consistently demonstrated proficiency  
in all the course skills will prepare students to take  
AP Calculus AB (MTH471/472) and AP Statistics (MTH461/462). 
Students may also elect to take Mathematical Modeling 
and Design (MTH431/432) or Data Science (MTH481/482) as 
non-AP course options. AP Precalculus AB (MTH411/412) is 
not appropriate for students seeking to take AP Calculus BC 
(MTH491/492). 
Senior Students: Successfully completing this course will 
prepare students to take calculus or another at-level math 
course upon entering college. At some institutions, college 
credit via the AP Precalculus Exam may fulfill college math 
requirements or serve as a tool to guide college math and 
science course placements.
MTH421–Semester 1 MTH422–Semester 2 
Open to: 10-11-12  Full Year 
Prerequisite: Algebra 2 AB/BC Credit: Honors
AP Precalculus BC (MTH421/422) is aligned with the  
College Board’s expectations to prepare students for future 
studies in calculus. The course design prepares students  
for the College Board AP Precalculus Exam.
This course is ideal for students preparing to complete 
two semesters of college calculus in high school or enroll 
in calculus a/f_ter graduation. This course attends to all the 
learning outcomes of AP Precalculus AB (MTH411/412),  
as well as functions involving parameters, vectors and 
matrices. Students will routinely apply prior learning to 
unique, non-routine and novel contexts. The course design 
emphasizes students’ growth in making connections and 
transferring knowledge between units of study while 
extending their learning in preparation for taking calculus  
in high school. As required by the College Board, please  
note that this course will appear as AP Precalculus on the 
student’s transcript.
Sophomore and Junior Students: Successfully completing 
this course will prepare students to take AP Calculus AB 
(MTH471/472), AP Calculus BC (MTH491/492) and AP Statistics 
(MTH461/462). Students may also elect to take Mathematical 
Modeling and Design (MTH431/432) or Data Science 
(MTH481/482) as non-AP course options.
Senior Students: Successfully completing this course will 
prepare students to take calculus or another at-level math 
course upon entering college. At some institutions, college 
credit via the AP Precalculus Exam may fulfill college math 
requirements or serve as a tool to guide college math and 
science course placements.