SOCIAL STUDIES100
AP GOVERNMENT–UNITED STATES 
SOC681–Semester 1 SOC682–Semester 2 
Open to: 12 One Semester
Prerequisite: World History and Geography, U.S. History
Credit: honors
This course gives students the tools to engage meaningfully 
in the local, state and national political process. This course 
involves both the study of general concepts used to interpret 
U.S. politics and the analysis of specific case studies. It also 
requires familiarity with the various institutions, groups, 
beliefs and ideas that constitute United States political 
reality. Civics skills will be acquired to help students learn 
to use the skills, knowledge and attitudes that will prepare 
them to be competent and responsible citizens. Instruction 
and assessment will address the principles of representative 
government, as enunciated in the American Declaration 
of Independence, the Constitution of the U.S.A. and the 
Constitution of the State of Illinois. This course satisfies 
the Illinois civics requirement for high school graduation 
and Stevenson’s graduation requirement of one semester 
of government. Students who enroll in this course will be 
prepared to take the AP United States Government and  
Politics exam in May.
AP GOVERNMENT–UNITED STATES—ONLINE
SOC6Q1–Semester 1 SOC6Q2–Semester 2
Open to: 12 One Semester
Prerequisite: World History and Geography, U.S. History
Credit: honors
AP Government–United States can also be taken in an 
asynchronous online setting while fulfilling the same 
curricular requirements. Instructional activities are adjusted 
for an asynchronous online instructional setting. There will be 
no regular physical class meeting period or time. Activities and 
assignments will have daily due dates. Students will receive 
regular individualized feedback from the teacher. Common  
AP Government team assessments will be conducted  
in-person during the school day in the testing center. Daily  
in-person office hours with the teacher will be available for all 
students enrolled in the course. In-person remediation may 
be required by the teacher as needed on an individual student 
basis during office hours. 