SCIENCE 89
BIOLOGY
SCI111–Semester 1  SCI112–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12  Full Year
Prerequisite: NONE
Credit: COLLEGE PREP Biological Science
In this lab-based course, students explore macromolecules, 
comparative anatomy, group behavior, genetics, evolution, 
DNA technology, ecology, diffusion/osmosis, gene expression, 
cancer and the cell cycle, human impacts, homeostasis and 
interactions between body systems. Students will work 
collaboratively and engage with the science and engineering 
practices. Students will work together to complete a pig 
dissection in this course. This course can fulfill students’ 
graduation requirement for two semesters of biological 
science.
CHEMISTRY
SCI211–Semester 1  SCI212–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12  Full Year
Prerequisite: NONE
Credit: COLLEGE PREP Physical Science
In this lab-based course, students explore atomic structure, 
the periodic table, intermolecular forces, thermodynamics, 
types of reactions, reaction rates, equilibrium and acids  
and bases. Students will work collaboratively and engage  
with the science and engineering practices. This course  
can fulfill students’ graduation requirement for two semesters 
of physical science.
EARTH SCIENCE
SCI271–Semester 1  SCI272–Semester 2 
Open to: 10-11-12  Full Year 
Prerequisite: NONE 
Credit: College Prep Physical Science
In this lab-based course, students explore minerals, rocks, 
plate tectonics, earthquakes, volcanoes, weathering, running 
water, glaciers, wind, atmospheric science and astronomy. 
Students will work collaboratively and engage with the science 
and engineering practices, applying their learning in several 
hands-on engineering projects across the year. This course can 
fulfill students’ graduation requirement for two semesters of 
physical science.
PHYSICS 
SCI401–Semester 1 SCI402–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: None 
Credit: College prep physical science
In this lab-based course, students explore constant and 
changing velocity, forces, energy, momentum, electrostatics, 
electricity and magnetism, circuits and waves. Students 
will work collaboratively and engage with the science and 
engineering practices. This course can fulfill students’ 
graduation requirement for two semesters of physical  
science and is beneficial for students considering careers  
in engineering.
HORTICUL TURE
SCI531–Semester 1 SCI532–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 ONE SEMESTER
Prerequisite: NONE
Credit: College prep Biological science
In this lab-based course, students explore plant structure, 
function, ecology and cultivation. Students will work 
collaboratively and engage with the science and engineering 
practices, including frequent visits and learning in Stevenson’s 
greenhouse and green roof environments. This course does 
not satisfy the life science graduation requirement, but it is 
beneficial for students who are interested in learning more 
about plants and plant propagation.
SCIENCE RESEARCH
SCI351–Semester 1 SCI352–Semester 2 
Open to: 10-11-12 FULL YEAR 
Prerequisite: None PASS/FAIL COURSE
Credit: College Prep Elective Science
In this lab-based course, students explore scientific inquiry 
and research methods. Students will work collaboratively 
and engage with the science and engineering practices. 
In this course, students design and conduct experiments, 
analyze data and present findings for their original research 
project that will be entered into symposia, competitions and 
publications.
HUMAN ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY
SCI521–Semester 1 SCI522–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: NONE
Credit: Accelerated Biological science
In this lab-based course, students go beyond basic  
biology of human body systems and delve into the complex 
relationships required to maintain homeostasis. Students 
will work collaboratively and engage with the science and 
engineering practices. In this course students conduct 
dissections. This course does not satisfy the life science 
graduation requirement, but it is beneficial for students 
considering careers in health-related fields.