ADLAI E. STEVENSON HIGH SCHOOL10
TRANSCRIPTS
Students may request transcripts by logging onto  
www.parchment.com. Some transcripts might require a fee  
to be submitted online prior to the request being processed.
College admission test scores are not included on the 
transcripts. Students must request these test scores to be sent 
directly to colleges and universities. This may be done through 
the various testing agencies’ websites. 
For information regarding ACT test scores, visit:  
https://www.act.org/content/act/en/products-and-services/
the-act/scores.html
For SAT exam scores, visit:  
https://satsuite.collegeboard.org/sat/scores/getting-scores/
your-scores
For AP exam scores, visit: 
https://apstudents.collegeboard.org/view-scores
ACADEMIC HONORS
SEAL OF BILITERACY PROGRAM
Stevenson High School students have the opportunity to be 
recognized by the State of Illinois for earning proficiency in 
English and at least one additional language. The Illinois State 
Board of Education (ISBE) Seal of Biliteracy program will place 
an official seal on diplomas and confer official recognition on 
transcripts of those students who qualify.
Two honors are available: the Seal of Biliteracy and the 
Commendation toward Biliteracy. The Seal of Biliteracy is 
awarded to those whose proficiency level is equivalent to the 
Intermediate High scale set by the American Council on the 
Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL). The Commendation of 
Biliteracy is awarded to students whose proficiency level is rated 
at Intermediate Low or Intermediate Mid in a second language.
To qualify for the Seal of Biliteracy, students must  
demonstrate proficiency in English via the SAT , ACT or  
ACCESS exam, demonstrate proficiency in another language(s) 
and satisfy all requirements for graduation from Stevenson 
High School.
English proficiency is demonstrated by meeting one of the 
following criteria during a student’s high school career:
■	 Earn a minimum score of 18 in the ELA portion of  
the ACT with writing. OR
■	 Earn a minimum score of 480 on the Evidence-Based 
Reading and Writing portion of the SAT . OR
■	 Earn a minimum overall composite score of 4.8 on  
the ACCESS for ELDs exam. 
Proficiency in a language other than English is demonstrated 
by meeting one of the following criteria:
■	 Earn a 4 or 5 on the Advanced Placement language 
exam. OR
■	 Earn a minimum score of I-5 on all four components of 
ACTFL’s Assessment of Performance toward Proficiency 
in Languages (AAPPL) exam. The following languages 
can be assessed via the AAPPL exam: Arabic, Chinese 
(Mandarin), French, German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, 
Portuguese, Spanish, Thai and ESL. The AAPPL ALIRA 
exam is used to assess Latin. OR
■	 Earn a minimum score of Intermediate High on all four 
components of Avant’s Standards-based Measurement 
of Proficiency (STAMP) 4S exam. The following 
languages can be assessed with the STAMP 4S exam: 
Hebrew, Hindi, Polish and Russian.
■	 For languages for which an AAPPL or STAMP is not 
currently available, the AL TA exam may be offered.
Students that do not meet the minimum scores required 
to attain the Seal of Biliteracy may still qualify for the 
Commendation toward Biliteracy. Students must still 
demonstrate proficiency in English by meeting the 
aforementioned criteria (see previous). Progress toward 
proficiency in a language other than English is  
demonstrated by meeting one of the following criteria:
■	 Earn a 3 on the Advanced Placement language exam 
taken as a junior. OR
■	 Earn a minimum score of I-1, I-2, I-3 or I-4 across the 
four domains of ACTFL’s Assessment of Performance 
toward Proficiency in Languages (AAPPL) exam. The 
following languages can be assessed with the AAPPL 
exam: Arabic, Chinese (Mandarin), French, German, 
Italian, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Spanish, Thai 
and ESL. OR 
■	 Earn a minimum score of Intermediate Low or 
Intermediate Mid on all four components of Avant’s 
Standards-based Measurement of Proficiency (STAMP) 
4S exam. The following languages can be assessed with 
the STAMP 4S exam: Hebrew, Hindi, Polish and Russian.