PHYSICAL WELFARE DIVISION
ABYGAIL AUSTIN, DIRECTOR  |  AAUSTIN/at.caseD125.ORG  |  847-415-4229
Physical Education Department Health Education Department
The Division of Physical Welfare empowers students to  
become independent, self-reflective and healthy lifelong  
movers. We believe that understanding how to fuel both body 
and mind is essential for personal growth and well-being. Our 
programs emphasize the value of self and others, fostering a 
sense of belonging through healthy relationships and cultivating 
strength and emotional resilience through movement.
Our courses are designed to inspire and equip students  
with the knowledge and skills needed to pursue and plan for  
lifelong wellness. Students learn to make healthy, responsible 
lifestyle decisions while engaging in activities that build  
positive physical, social and emotional habits.
Beyond traditional physical and health education, our 
comprehensive curriculum empowers students to take 
ownership of their well-being. Through a movement-based 
curriculum and comprehensive Health Education Programs, 
students gain the essential knowledge and skills to become 
healthy, lifelong learners. 
Our curriculum offers diverse and engaging activities that:
■	 Foster physical literacy
■	 Promote health-related fitness
■	 Cultivate a mind-body connection
■	 Encourage critical thinking and self-reflection
■	 Inspire lifelong engagement
■	 Build community and leadership
Students have the opportunity to choose activities that align  
with their interests, allowing them to further develop their 
knowledge and skills. We are committed to providing equal 
opportunities for daily physical education to every student, 
regardless of their athletic ability or physical capabilities. 
Individual needs and interests guide their Physical Education 
choices.
Physical Welfare courses required for graduation:
■	 All students must be enrolled in a Physical Education 
course
■	 Health Education
SCAN QR CODE TO READ MORE ABOUT PHYSICAL WELFARE ONLINE:
www.d125.org/academics/physical-welfare
PHYSICAL WELFARE82