12.  District 125 may grant access to, or release information 
from, student records without parent/guardian consent 
or notification to any person for the purpose of research, 
statistical reporting, or planning, provided that no student 
or parents/guardians can be identified from the information 
released, and the person to whom the information is 
released signs an affidavit agreeing to comply with all 
applicable statutes and rules pertaining to school student 
records.
 13. District 125 will grant access to, or release information 
from, a student’s records pursuant to a court order, 
provided that the parents/guardians will be given prompt 
written notice of such order’s terms, the nature and 
substance of the information proposed to be released, and 
an opportunity to inspect and copy such records and to 
challenge their contents. However, District 125 will comply 
with an ex parte court order requiring it to permit the U.S. 
Attorney General or designee to have access to a student’s 
records without notice to or the consent of the student’s 
parents/guardians. 
 14. District 125 will grant access to, or release information 
from, any student record as specifically required by 
federal or State law. NOTE: IT IS STEVENSON’S POLICY TO 
SHARE INFORMATION REGARDING THE CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES OF 
STUDENTS WITH JUVENILE AUTHORITIES, INCLUDING LOCAL POLICE 
DEPARTMENTS, AND PERMITTED BY LAW. 
 15. District 125 will grant access to, or release information 
from, student records to any person possessing a written, 
dated consent, signed by the parents/guardians (or student 
age 18 or older) stating to whom the records may be 
released; the information or record to be released; the 
reason for the release; the right of the parents/guardians 
or eligible student to copy the information to be disclosed, 
challenge its contents, limit the consent to designated 
record(s) or portion(s) of the information contained in those 
records, and revoke the consent in writing at any time; 
the consequences of a refusal to consent, if any; and the 
date on which the consent expires. One copy of the signed 
consent form will be kept in the temporary records and 
one copy is mailed to the parents/guardians (or student age 
18 or older) by the Superintendent or designee. 
 16. District 125 may release student records, or information 
contained therein, to the official records custodian 
of another Illinois school, or an official with similar 
responsibilities in a school outside of Illinois, in which the 
student has enrolled or intends to enroll, upon written 
request from such official.
 17. Prior to the release of any records, or information under 
items 14 and 16 above, District 125 will provide prompt 
written notice to the parents/guardians (or student age 
18 or older) of this intended action. This notification shall 
include a statement concerning the nature and substance of 
the records to be released and the right to inspect, copy, 
and challenge the contents. If the release is under  
14 above and relates to more than 25 students, a notice 
published in the newspaper is sufficient. 
 18. District 125 may release student records, or information 
contained therein, in connection with an emergency 
without parent/guardian consent if the knowledge of such 
information is necessary to protect the health or safety 
of the student or other persons. District 125 employees 
and school officials shall make this decision in taking into 
consideration the nature of the emergency, the seriousness 
of the threat to the health or safety of the student or 
other persons, the need for such records to meet the 
emergency, and whether the persons to whom such records 
are released are in position to deal with the emergency. 
District 125 will notify the parents/guardians (or students 
age 18 or older) as soon as possible of the information 
released, the date of the release, the person, agency 
or organization to whom the release was made, and the 
purpose of the release.
 19. District 125 will grant access to, or release information 
from student records to juvenile authorities when 
necessary for the discharge of their official duties upon 
their request before the student’s adjudication, provided 
they certify in writing that the information will not be 
disclosed to any other party except as provided under law 
or order of court. “Juvenile authorities” means: 
(a)   a circuit court judge and court staff members 
designated by the judge; 
(b)   parties to the proceeding under the Juvenile Court Act 
of 1987 and their attorneys; 
(C )  probation officers and court appointed advocates for 
the juvenile authorized by the judge hearing the case; 
(d)   any individual, public or private agency having court-
ordered custody of the child; 
(e)  any individual, public or private agency providing 
education, medical or mental health service to the child 
when the requested information is needed to determine 
the appropriate service or treatment for the minor; 
(f)  any potential placement provider when such 
release is authorized by the court to determine the 
appropriateness of the potential placement;
(g)  law enforcement officers and prosecutors; 
(h)  adult and juvenile prisoner review boards; 
(i)   authorized military personnel; and 
(j)  individuals authorized by court.
 20.  District 125 will grant access to, or release information 
from student records, to a SHOCAP (Serious Habitual 
Offender Comprehensive Action Program) committee member, 
provided that: 
(a)  the committee member is a State or local official or 
authority; 
(b)   the disclosure concerns the juvenile justice system’s 
ability to effectively serve, prior to adjudication, 
the student whose records are to be released and 
the official or authority certifies in writing that the 
records will not be disclosed to any other party except 
as provided under State law without the prior written 
consent of the student’s parents/guardians; 
(C ) the disclosure’s purpose is limited to identifying 
serious habitual juvenile offenders and matching those 
offenders with community resources pursuant to 
Section 5-145 of the Juvenile Court Act of 1987; and 
(d)   the release, transfer, disclosure, or dissemination 
consistent with the Family Education Rights and  
Privacy Act.
 21. Upon their request, military recruiters and institutions of 
higher learning will have access to secondary student’s 
names, addresses, and telephone listings, unless an 
objection is made by the student’s parents/guardians. Any 
parents/guardians who do not want such information 
to be released should check: “I do not wish to release 
information” under the Request to Release Student 
Information when completing the Online Registration  
during the summer. 
 22. It is the student’s right that no person may condition the 
granting or withholding of any right, privilege or benefits, 
or make as a condition of employment, credit or insurance, 
the securing by any individual of any information from a 
student’s temporary record which such individual may obtain 
through the exercise of any right secured under State or 
federal law.
 23. Copies of the Board Policy 7:340, Student Records, and its 
administrative procedures are available for inspection in the 
District’s Administrative Office. Policy 7:340 is also available 
on the District’s website. If you have any questions, please 
call 847-415-4000 and ask for the Principal. 
APPENDIX 109