Dear Students and Parents/Guardians:
Stevenson High School has a proud tradition of offering an outstanding program  
of academic courses, athletic programs and co-curricular activities. Our mission of  
Success for Every Student leads us to seek offerings that will best prepare students for  
life a/f_ter high school. This coursebook provides a brief description of every course and  
the sequencing of courses designed by each department. We offer a wide array of courses  
in all subject areas demonstrating our commitment to helping all students establish a  
broad foundation for future learning in college, in the workforce and beyond.
High school course selection can play a significant role in a student’s future options.  
Designing a four-year, goal-oriented plan with a counselor is an important part of the 
development of a coherent approach to course selection. We want every student to be 
prepared for the future and that starts by making informed choices regarding the classes  
to pursue in high school. Our counseling staff is available to help in any way possible.
For incoming freshmen, the course selection process begins with one of our Incoming 
Freshman Parent/Guardian and Student Orientation Evenings (Wednesday, Jan. 7;  
Thursday, Jan. 8; or Tuesday, Jan. 13, 2026). Together, with the information available  
on our website (www.d125.org) and from our division directors, students can prepare  
for one of our course selection evenings on Thursday, Jan. 15; Tuesday, Jan. 20; or  
Wednesday, Jan. 21.
For current students, it is critical for both students and parents/guardians to be involved  
in the course selection process and work closely with a counselor to make selections.  
Your counselor is there to assist you along the way. Feel free to ask them questions. You  
can also ask teachers or division directors about courses. Seeking out the information  
you need will help you make better decisions about your classes for the next year.
In closing, the faculty and staff at Stevenson High School are here to support  
the success of every student. Your involvement in that process is important. As you  
progress through your four years at Stevenson High School, we hope that every  
student is prepared for future success.
Sincerely,
Troy Gobble 
Principal 
Our mission: success for every student
One Stevenson Drive  
Lincolnshire, Illinois 
60069  
847.415.4000
d125 .org 