COMMUNICATION ARTS30
PUBLIC SPEAKING
ENG761–Semester 1 ENG762–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: NONE credit: College prep 
This course is designed to provide experience and training in 
public speaking so that students are equipped with the skills 
essential for success in the business and academic worlds 
of today and tomorrow. Students learn to tailor a message 
to suit a particular audience, enhance the message through 
technology, understand logic and reasoning, develop listening 
skills, identify propaganda techniques and understand 
the physical producers of voice to control and vary tone, 
volume, pitch and rate. Students participate in workshop-
oriented groups to develop the various skills listed above. 
Students present approximately one speech per week and are 
responsible for constructive feedback of their peers’ speeches. 
POLITICAL THOUGHT AND ITS LITERATURE  
ENG601–Semester 1 ENG602–Semester 2
Open to: 12 One Semester
Prerequisite: U.S. History and ANY Junior English
Credit: College prep
This one-semester elective course, which can be taken as 
an English credit or social studies credit, helps students 
develop skills in the areas of reading, literary analysis, writing, 
oral communication and research in order to help them 
better be prepared for future education. Students explore 
the overarching themes of the course—the individual’s 
understanding of self and others, individualism v. collectivism 
in democracy, ethics and morals, political partisanship, race 
relations, diversity, income inequality, politics and media 
relations, civil liberties and many other important political 
issues—through short stories, essays, articles, novels, poetry, 
drama and other intriguing texts. Through their reading 
and inquiry, students are introduced to various stylistic 
techniques that help them learn strategies to improve their 
reading comprehension, writing, listening and speaking 
skills. Students write in multiple formats throughout the year, 
including narrative and argumentative, which is a framework 
for critical thinking. Authentic class discussion plays a vital 
role in that students talk in class as a means of enhancing their 
speaking and listening skills as a critical thinker. Students will 
participate in a mock trial, reach outside of the community, 
participate in class discussions and examine what it means 
to develop a worldview and what it means to be a political 
scientist. 
CREATIVE WRITING 
ENG501–Semester 1 ENG502–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None
Credit: College Prep with Accelerated Option
Students learn to express their thoughts through writing 
short stories, poems and plays. Class discussions analyze 
and implement different writing styles including, but not 
limited to, fiction, poetry and drama. The course format is a 
workshop that includes daily writing. Students will give and 
receive feedback and peer edit in small- and full-class groups. 
Students are also required to read and annotate fiction. The 
reading will be assessed in a manner that engages students 
in a process through which they become more aware of how 
their reading improves over time. All students participate in 
a variety of approaches to literacy development and to apply 
what they learn to the art of writing creatively.
CREATIVE WRITING SEMINAR 
ENG522–Semester 2 Only
Open to: 11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: Creative Writing 
Credit: College Prep with Accelerated Option
Students will refine their skills in writing and analyzing stories, 
plays and poetry. Projects, readings and assignments will 
cover various genres that allow students to pursue individual 
interests. Class discussions focus on the analysis and 
consideration of different writing styles and genres including, 
but not limited to, fiction, poetry and drama. Students explore 
writing in greater depth than in the prerequisite course, 
examining how various genres impact writing style and what 
it means to create voice in writing. The course format is a 
workshop that includes daily writing. Students will give and 
receive feedback and peer edit in small and full class groups. 
Students are also required to read and annotate fiction. The 
reading will be assessed in a manner that engages students 
in a process through which they become more aware of how 
their reading improves over time. All students participate in a 
wide variety of approaches to literacy development and apply 
what they learn to the art of writing creatively.