COMMUNICATION ARTS32
JOURNALISTIC WRITING
GPA WAIVER OPTION 
JRN901–Semester 1 JRN902–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None Not an English graduation credit
Credit: College prep
This course includes interviewing students and adults, writing 
stories that could get published in the student newspaper or 
yearbook and solving problems that typically face reporters 
and editors. Designed to offer students background and 
practice in basic journalism concepts and skills, Journalistic 
Writing units include news gathering/interviewing, news 
writing, feature writing, copy editing, press law and opinion 
writing. Oral and written communication skills, as well as 
critical thinking and problem-solving skills, will be exercised.
ADVANCED JOURNALISTIC WRITING
GPA WAIVER OPTION
JRN921–Semester 1 JRN922–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester Elective Credit
 Not an English graduation credit
Prerequisite: Journalistic Writing
Credit: College prep
Units in opinion writing (editorial, personal column, reviews), 
feature writing, sports writing and in-depth reporting, along 
with hands-on production of pages, prepare students for 
positions in student publications. Students will build on the 
reporting and writing skills learned in Journalistic Writing. 
As in the prerequisite course, communication and problem-
solving will be stressed.
BROADCAST JOURNALISM
GPA WAIVER OPTION 
JRN911–Semester 1 JRN912–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12  One Semester Elective Credit
Prerequisite: None Not an English graduation credit
Credit: College prep
This one-semester course is designed to combine the 
journalistic principles of coverage and writing with video 
production. The course requires that students learn the 
techniques and tools to accurately, efficiently and ethically 
communicate using video and audio in a variety of platforms 
(studio desk, live at the scene, vlog, podcast, radio, game 
coverage, etc.). Students will write scripts, apply visual 
messaging and research stories and topics, as well as critically 
evaluate past broadcasts and film. Additionally, students will 
produce video segments for different audiences and topics in 
a variety of roles. 
PUBLICATION DESIGN AND PRODUCTION
JRN951–Semester 1 JRN952–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 FULL YEAR
 Not an English graduation credit
Prerequisite: Advanced Journalistic Writing 
Credit: Accelerated
Students do all the work necessary to produce the  
Statesman (newspaper and website). Staff positions include 
executive editors, copy editors, design editors, advertising 
manager, section editors (news, opinions, sports, in-depth and 
feature) and reporter. Staff members gather news, research 
and write copy and help complete pages. Because this is a 
student publication, all responsibilities—from the planning 
of the content, to the design of an issue, to the processing of 
photos and the completion of pages—are handled by students. 
A/f_ter-school work is necessary for these publications. This 
course may be repeated for credit. 
 