LANGUAGE LEARNING 
DEPARTMENT
FRENCH 1
FRE101–Semester 1 FRE102–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
Students begin to develop their competence in French across 
three modes of communication: interpersonal, presentational 
and interpretative. They will explore the language in the 
context of six AP themes: Global Challenges, Science and 
Technology, Contemporary Life, Personal and Public Identities, 
Families and Communities and Beauty and Aesthetics. 
Performance-based assessments in the presentational and 
interpersonal modes (speaking and writing) provide the 
students the opportunity to use the language in practiced, 
familiar contexts. Interpretive listening and reading tasks are 
focused on the acquisition and recognition of basic stated 
information in the target language. Additionally, students 
explore the cultures of the French-speaking world, making 
comparisons and connections with their own experiences. 
Communication in class (teacher-student and/or student-
student) is primarily in French.
FRENCH 2
FRE211–Semester 1 FRE212–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: French 1 or passing the placement exam for  
French 2 and approval of director
Credit: Accelerated
This course is the first in the three-year accelerated  
sequence that prepares students for AP French Language. 
Students continue to develop their competence in French 
across the three modes of communication in the context of  
the six AP themes. Performance-based assessments in the 
interpersonal and presentational modes (speaking and 
writing) provide the students the opportunity to use the 
language in practiced, familiar contexts as well as occasional, 
unfamiliar topics with increasing independence. Interpretive 
listening and reading is focused on the recognition of key 
details and making inferences about the content of authentic 
sources. Students continue to explore the cultures of the 
French-speaking world in new contexts. Communication in 
class (teacher-student and/or student-student) is primarily  
in French.
FRENCH 3 
DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE WITH LOYOLA UNIVERSITY
FRE311–Semester 1 FRE312–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: French 2 or passing the placement exam for 
French 3 and approval of director
Credit: Accelerated
This course is the second in the three-year accelerated 
sequence that prepares students for AP French Language. 
Students continue to develop their competence in French 
across the three modes of communication in the context 
of the six AP themes. Performance-based assessments in 
the interpersonal and presentational modes (speaking and 
writing) provide the students the opportunity to use French 
independently in familiar contexts, with the increasing ability 
to use the language in unfamiliar contexts. Interpretive 
listening and reading tasks are focused on both literal 
comprehension and inferential interpretation. Throughout 
the course, students continue to explore the cultures of 
the French-speaking world in new contexts. In this course, 
students also read authentic literature including poems, short 
stories and excerpts from novels. Communication in class 
(teacher-student and/or student-student) is entirely in French.
AP FRENCH LANGUAGE
FRE601–Semester 1 FRE602–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: French 3 or passing the placement exam for  
AP French Language and approval of director
Credit: honors
Students continue to work to develop their competence across 
the three modes of communication in the context of the six 
AP themes, as they simultaneously prepare for the AP French 
Language and Culture exam. Performance-based assessments 
(speaking and writing) provide the students the opportunity 
to use the language independently in unfamiliar contexts. 
Interpretive listening and reading tasks involve authentic 
sources designed for native speakers and are focused on  
both literal comprehension and inferential interpretation.  
A variety of authentic print, audio and video materials  
provide the basis for exploration of the cultures of the  
French-speaking world. Tasks involve students analyzing 
and making comparisons with their own cultural products, 
practices and perspectives. Communication in class  
(teacher-student and/or student-student) is entirely in French. 
Students who enroll in this course will be prepared to take  
the AP French Language and Culture exam in May.
LANGUAGE LEARNING—FRENCH72