APPLIED ARTS–DRIVER EDUCATION 19
DRIVER EDUCATION 
DRIVER EDUCATION
D/E231–Semester 1 D/E232–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12  One Semester
Prerequisite: AN INSTRUCTION PERMIT ISSUED BY THE SECRETARY 
OF STATE’S OFFICE THROUGH DRIVER EDUCATION, PARENTAL CONSENT, 
VERIFICATION OF AGE (ENROLLMENT IS BASED ON CHRONOLOGICAL AGE 
and GRADE LEVEL) AND ACCUMULATION OF AT LEAST EIGHT CREDITS IN 
THE PREVIOUS TWO SEMESTERS. Students in the ELD program must 
be enrolled in ELD 2 or higher to register for Driver Education. 
Credit: College prep
This course is normally taken during one semester of 
sophomore or junior year. Students are enrolled in this  
course based on chronological age. For the 2026-27 school 
year, students may request enrollment in the course for  
first semester if they were born on or before Nov. 1, 2010  
and for second semester if they were born on or before  
March 1, 2011. Students must take and pass both the 
classroom phase and the behind-the-wheel phase of Driver 
Education if they wish to receive a license prior to their  
18th birthday. Passing the classroom phase of the  
course is required for graduation. 
The course is a two-phase program consisting of classroom 
and behind-the-wheel instruction. The course prepares 
students for safe motor vehicle operation in a suburban 
driving environment. Among the topics taught in this course 
are the rules of the road, defensive driving, natural laws and 
their effects on vehicle control, driver responsibility and 
impaired and distracted driving. Students must also meet all 
the essential course requirements as mandated by the Illinois 
State Board of Education and the Secretary of State’s Office. 
This includes 50 hours of at-home practice, done concurrently 
while taking the class. The grades earned in this course are  
not included in the student’s grade point average.
Students may request enrollment in the course through their 
counselor during course selection. However, enrollment is 
based on age. Upon completion of course selection, exact 
birth dates will be confirmed. Students who are oldest will be 
placed in Driver Education first. If the course is full, students 
will be notified via their counselor if a seat becomes available. 
Students will receive an email notification in birth date order. 
Other requirements:
■		Students must be 15 years old to obtain an Illinois permit.
■		Students must hold an Illinois permit for nine months 
before receiving a license.
■		Students must be enrolled in a Driver Education course 
to obtain an Illinois permit.
■		Freshmen (regardless of age) are ineligible to take 
Driver Education until the summer between freshman 
and sophomore year.
■		A Driver Education teacher will contact students prior 
to the start of the Driver Education class to begin the 
permit process.
■		If a student drops Driver Education, their permit will  
be canceled.
■		If a student chooses to select the classroom only 
option, they will not be able to complete the  
behind-the-wheel phase at a later time.
Driver Education fees: $400 and an additional $20 check to  
the Secretary of State. 
Parents/Guardians will be informed if their student has been 
enrolled in Driver Education by March 8.