CHOICE P .E. 
PED451–Semester 1 PED452–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: A Foundational Fitness class, any previous  
Physical Education course or director approval
Credit: College prep
This course is designed for students to develop and maintain 
their lifelong wellness in activities of their choice. Students 
will choose the activity in which they will participate each 
semester. (Regardless of activity selected, all students will 
learn how to apply their fitness plan, reflect on their fitness 
and build their knowledge of health-related fitness.) This 
course may be repeated for credit.
EARLY BIRD OPTION
PED031 (early bird)–Semester 1 PED032 (early bird)–Semester 2 
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: A Foundational Fitness course, any physical 
education class or director approval
Credit: College prep
(See description for Choice P .E.). Early Bird Physical Education 
is scheduled from 7-8:25 a.m. on Monday/Wednesday/Friday. 
Students with excessive absenteeism in this class will be 
removed from the Early Bird program and placed in a Physical 
Education class during the regularly scheduled day. This 
course may be repeated for credit. 
PHYSICAL EDUCATION LEADERSHIP TRAINING 
GPA WAIVER OPTION 
PED61L–Semester 1 PED62L–Semester 2
Open to: 11 Full Year
Credit: College prep
Note: The Physical education Leadership program is a  
two-year commitment 
The first year of the Leadership Program is designed for 
students to become effective teacher aides and strong leaders. 
There will be active participation in all activities offered within 
the Stevenson Physical Education program. Students will 
learn to lead group activities, to develop skill progression 
and to study methods and techniques of teaching physical 
education. The focus of this program is to develop and expand 
on leadership skills in group and individual led discussions 
or teaching opportunities where students will be asked to 
continually reflect on their leadership experience. Students 
will have the opportunity to apply the skills they learn by 
assisting Physical Education classes and planning two field 
days for junior high students. Failure to comply with the 
Stevenson High School Student Guidebook Code of Conduct 
and P .E. Leader Code of Conduct can result in immediate 
dismissal.
SENIOR LEADERSHIP 
GPA WAIVER OPTION 
PED81L–Semester 1 PED82L–Semester 2
Open to: 12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: Physical education Leadership Training
Credit: College prep
Students will apply what they learned in Physical Education 
Leadership Training by serving as teacher aides with a Physical 
Education teacher. All students will participate in fitness 
testing. Failure to comply with the Stevenson High School 
Student Guidebook Code of Conduct and P .E. Leader Code  
of Conduct can result in immediate dismissal.
LIFEGUARD TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION 
GPA WAIVER OPTION 
PED501–Semester 1 Only Open to: 10-11-12 
One Semester
Prerequisite: Ability to demonstrate required swim skills. 
Students must be at least 15 years old by the end of the 
course.
Additional fee to receive AMERICAN RED CROSS certificate.
Credit: College prep
This course is designed to provide students with the 
ability to earn American Red Cross Lifeguarding and First 
Aid certification. Students will also learn skills in oxygen 
administration, preventing disease transmission and  
CPR/AED. Students will be charged a fee if they wish to  
receive their American Red Cross certification. Students  
taking this class will be encouraged to participate in our  
Pool Leadership program. (Materials for the course are 
available in the Patriot Superstore.)
 
PHYSICAL WELFARE–PHYSICAL EDUCATION 85