FINE ARTS—MUSIC 57
GUITAR
GUITAR 1 
GPA WAIVER OPTION 
MUS421–Semester 1 MUS422–Semester 2 
Open to: 9-10-11-12  Full Year 
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep 
This course is designed for students who are interested 
in learning how to play the guitar and/or develop strong 
technical skills in guitar performance. While this course is 
designed for a brand new guitarist, it also supports students 
with some guitar experience. This course will introduce 
the techniques and musicianship skills in order to perform 
classical, blues, jazz, rock and pop repertoire. Students will 
learn music reading skills, sight-reading, chords, collaboration, 
practice skills and expressive performance and listening skills. 
Nylon string, classical guitars are provided. It is recommended 
to have an additional guitar at home to practice. This course 
may be repeated for credit.
GUITAR 2
GPA WAIVER OPTION
MUS461–Semester 1 MUS462–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Guitar 1 or per audition with the guitar faculty
Credit: College prep
This course is designed for guitarists who are interested 
in advancing their guitar abilities. Students will refine 
and further develop musicianship to develop a high level 
of performance on guitar. Emphasis is placed on the 
development of technique, music-reading skills, sight-reading, 
more technical chords throughout the neck of the guitar, 
and expressive performance, solo repertoire and ensemble 
skills. Nylon string, classical guitars are provided for class 
use. It is recommended to have an additional guitar at home 
to practice. Students perform two concerts throughout the 
year. This class may be repeated for credit. Students repeating 
this course or students with guitar experiences will receive 
a more tailored curriculum to help develop their skills and 
musicianship.
PATRIOT GUITAR ENSEMBLE 
GPA WAIVER OPTION (FOR COLLEGE PREP ONLY) 
MUS441–Semester 1 MUS442–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Auditions are required for all students WITH THE 
GUITAR FACULTY
Credit: College Prep with Accelerated Option
This course is designed for advanced guitarists who are 
interested in further developing technique and musicianship. 
The repertoire performed in this class includes chamber works 
for guitar, large ensemble pieces by composers of varied eras 
and extensive solo work repertoire. Emphasis is placed on 
development of technique, music-reading skills, composition, 
sight-reading, jazz voicings of chords and expressive 
performance as soloists and ensemble members. Nylon string, 
classical guitars are provided for class use. It is recommended 
to have an additional guitar at home to practice. Students 
perform three concerts throughout the year. This class may  
be repeated for credit.
* IMPORTANT NOTE FOR ALL BAND CLASSES: 
In order to earn a P .E. waiver, all band students who participate in the 
Marching Patriots must be available for rehearsals during summer 
and fall evenings. Students must also obtain all necessary GPA waiver 
approvals.
Note: Seniors who are enrolled in Wind Ensemble, Patriot Orchestra,  
Patriot Guitar Ensemble, Patriot Singers and Advanced Chorus and 
have been active for four semesters in performing ensembles, earn 
accelerated-level grade points unless requesting a GPA waiver. Band 
students participating in Marching Band are offered a P .E. waiver for  
the first semester.