FINE ARTS—MUSIC56
ORCHESTRA
STEVENSON ORCHESTRA
GPA WAIVER OPTION
MUS301–Semester 1 MUS302–Semester 2
Open to: 9 Full Year
Prerequisite: All incoming Freshman Orchestra students  
should register for this class
Credit: College prep
Note: All students enrolled in orchestra are expected to own or rent  
an instrument for home use, although cello and bass students may  
use school instruments for daily rehearsals.
This course is open to students in grade 9, as well as transfer 
students who demonstrate the appropriate level of technical 
preparedness on violin, viola, cello, bass or harp. Students 
will continue developing foundational and intermediate 
performance techniques while expanding their knowledge 
of music theory and comprehensive musicianship skills. The 
ensemble will study and perform a variety of string orchestra 
and chamber music repertoire. Students are required to 
attend scheduled rehearsals and performances outside of the 
school day. Performance commitments include four formal 
concerts and additional curricular string events throughout 
the school year. Incoming students in grade 9 and transfer 
students are encouraged to attend a one-day summer strings 
camp in August to become familiar with the strings program 
and facilities. This course may be repeated for credit.
CONCERT ORCHESTRA
GPA WAIVER OPTION
MUS311–Semester 1 MUS312–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12  Full Year
Prerequisite: Prior orchestra experience and/or approval  
of Orchestra FACULTY
Credit: College prep
Note: All students enrolled in orchestra are expected to own or rent  
an instrument for home use, although cello and bass students may  
use school instruments for daily rehearsals.
This course is designed for students in grades 10–12 who 
play violin, viola, cello, bass or harp with advanced string 
technique. Students will study two- and three-octave scales 
and arpeggios while developing advanced performance 
techniques, music theory knowledge and comprehensive 
musicianship skills. The orchestra will perform a wide range of 
intermediate to advanced string orchestra and chamber music 
repertoire. Students will participate in four formal concerts 
as well as additional curricular string events throughout the 
school year. This course may be repeated for credit.
SYMPHONIC ORCHESTRA
GPA WAIVER OPTION
MUS331–Semester 1 MUS332–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Auditions are required for all students with the 
orchestra faculty
Credit: College prep
Note: All students enrolled in orchestra are expected to own or rent  
an instrument for home use, although cello and bass students may  
use school instruments for daily rehearsals.
This course is designed for advanced violin, viola, cello, 
bass and harp string students. The repertoire in this class 
includes works for chamber groups, string ensemble and full 
orchestra. Musical works highlight repertoire of the Baroque, 
Classical and early Romantic eras with performances on five 
formal concerts throughout the school year. Students in this 
class will work towards mastery of three-octave major and 
minor scales and arpeggios, concerto-level repertoire, music 
theory concepts and comprehensive musicianship skills. The 
students in this ensemble collaborate with members of Wind 
Symphony each year for an exploration of the full orchestra 
repertoire. This course may be repeated for credit.
PATRIOT ORCHESTRA 
GPA WAIVER OPTION (FOR COLLEGE PREP ONLY)
MUS321–Semester 1 MUS322–Semester 2 
Open to: 10-11-12 (Qualified Students) Full Year
Prerequisite: All students must have completed one full year 
of Concert or Symphonic Orchestra in addition to a formal 
audition and approval from the Orchestra faculty
Credit: College Prep with Accelerated Option
Note: All students enrolled in orchestra are expected to own or rent  
an instrument for home use, although cello and bass students may  
use school instruments for daily rehearsals.
This course is designed for students in grades 10–12 who play 
violin, viola, cello, bass or harp and demonstrate advanced 
string technique. Repertoire includes works for chamber 
ensemble, string orchestra and full orchestra with a focus 
on advanced literature ranging from the mid-19th century 
to contemporary composers. Students will be expected to 
demonstrate mastery of all three-octave major and minor 
scales and arpeggios, concerto repertoire, music theory 
concepts and comprehensive musicianship skills. In addition 
to performing advanced repertoire, members of this ensemble 
collaborate annually with the Wind Ensemble to study and 
present full-orchestra literature. Students are required to 
attend scheduled rehearsals and performances outside of the 
school day. Performance commitments include five formal 
concerts and additional curricular string events throughout 
the year. Seniors may earn accelerated credit for this course. 
This course may be repeated for credit.