ENGLISH LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT (ELD) 3 
LANGUAGE
ELD361–Semester 1 ELD362–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12  Full Year
Prerequisite: Proficiency as demonstrated on WIDA-screener/ 
ACCESS exam COMPOSITE 3.0-3.9 or successful completion of  
ELD 2, teacher recommendation or director approval 
Credit: College prep
Note: May be taken concurrently with English Language Development 
(ELD) 3 Literature
This is one of two courses available for students in the ELD 
program at the advanced level. This course may be taken 
concurrently with English Language Development (ELD) 3 
Literature (ELD371/372) or may be taken alone. Students will 
leverage their own cultural and linguistic assets as they work 
to expand their English language proficiency. In addition 
to a focus on the development of advanced literacy skills, 
including argumentative writing and literary analysis, students 
will foster their listening and speaking skills by participating in 
discussions, debates and oral presentations.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT (ELD) 3 
LITERATURE
ELD371–Semester 1 ELD372–Semester 2 
Open to: 9-10-11-12  Full Year
Prerequisite: Proficiency as demonstrated on WIDA-screener/ 
ACCESS exam COMPOSITE 3.0-3.9 or successful completion of  
ELD 2, teacher recommendation or director approval 
Credit: College prep
Note: May be taken concurrently with English Language Development 
(ELD) 3 Language
This is one of two courses available for students in the ELD 
program at the advanced level. This course may be taken 
concurrently with English Language Development (ELD) 3 
Language (ELD361/362) or may be taken alone. Students will 
leverage their own cultural and linguistic assets as they work 
to expand their English language proficiency. Students will 
explore both fiction and nonfiction literature through both 
common and independent reading tasks. Students will make 
text-to-self connections as they engage in literary analysis and 
argumentative writing, including multi-page process writing.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT (ELD) 4 
ELD461–Semester 1 ELD462–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Proficiency as demonstrated on WIDA-screener/
ACCESS exam COMPOSITE 4.0-4.8 OR successful completion of  
ELD 3: Language and/or ELD 3: Literature, teacher recommendation 
or director approval.
Credit: College prep
This is an English course for students who are transitioning 
out of the ELD program. Students are expected to produce 
work with ELD support similar to that of a student in a 
Communication Arts English course. Students’ proficiencies 
will advance in the areas of literary analysis, writing, 
grammar, oral communication and research. Students will 
explore literary works from their own cultural backgrounds 
and experiences and use literature as a pathway to greater 
understanding of diverse perspectives and narratives.
CURRENT EVENTS
ELD561–Semester 1 ELD562–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep 
This one-semester elective course is designed to develop 
students’ academic, social and instructional language across 
the five WIDA Standards (Social and Instructional Language, 
the Language of Language Arts, the Language of Mathematics, 
the Language of Science and the Language of Social Studies) 
through discussion and guided written reflection around 
current events and students’ own experiences. Special focus 
will not only be given to written, audio and visual sources 
that are connected with the WIDA Standards, but also to 
students’ own cultural and linguistic experiences across 
these standards. Additionally, added focus will be given 
to academic, social and instructional language for WIDA’s 
five complementary strands (the Language of Music and 
Performing Arts, the Language of Humanities, the Language 
of Visual Arts, the Language of Health and Physical Education 
and the Language of Technology and Engineering.) This  
course may be repeated for credit.
MUL TILINGUAL LEARNING—ENGLISH LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT (ELD) 81