APPENDIX108
3.   District employees and school officials who have a current, 
demonstrable educational or administrative interest in 
the student may have access to the student records for 
the purpose of furthering such interest without parent/
guardian consent. A school official is a Board member, 
attorney, auditor, insurance representative, independent 
evaluator, contractor, consultant, volunteer, or other 
person to whom District 125 has outsourced institutional 
services or functions for which District 125 would 
otherwise use employees. 
 4.  Each parent/guardian of a student under 18 years old has 
a right to inspect and copy information in the student’s 
records. Such requests must be made in writing to the 
Principal. Access to the records will be given within 10 
business days of District 125’s receipt of the request. 
Access will not be given with respect to confidential 
letters/recommendations concerning post-secondary 
institutions, including but not limited to a college/
university. Where parents/guardians are divorced or 
separated, both shall be permitted to inspect and copy the 
student’s records unless District 125 received a copy of a 
court order indicating otherwise. When a student reaches 
18 years old, graduates from high school, marries, or enters 
military service, all rights and privileges accorded to the 
parents/guardians become exclusively those of the student 
and no one other than the student can request records or 
information in such records.
 5.  District 125 charges $0.35 per page for copies of student 
records. No parent/guardian or student will be precluded 
from receiving copies because of financial hardship.
 6.  Parents/guardians have the right to request a hearing 
to challenge the accuracy, relevancy, or propriety of 
their student’s records, except for academic grades and 
references to expulsions or out-of-school suspensions 
if the challenge is made at the time the student’s school 
records are forwarded to another school to which the 
student is transferring. Parents/guardians also have the 
right to insert a written rebuttal concerning the content 
of such records.
 7. Upon request for a hearing concerning the content of the 
student’s records, the Principal will arrange an informal 
meeting with the parent/guardian. If thereafter the parent/
guardian wishes to proceed with a hearing, the parent/
guardian must submit such a request in writing 
  to the Superintendent. The parent/guardian has the right 
to present evidence and call witnesses, cross-examine 
witnesses, legal counsel, and receive written statements 
of the decision and the reasons for such decision. 
The parent/guardian may insert a written statement of 
reasonable length describing their position on disputed 
information. The parent/guardian may appeal the decision to 
an administrative tribunal or official designated by the State 
Board of Education.
 8. Parents/guardians have the right to file a complaint with 
the U.S. Department of Education concerning alleged failures 
by District 125 to comply with the requirements of the Family 
Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). The name and  
address of the Office that administers FERPA is: 
  Family Policy Compliance Office  
U.S. Department of Education  
400 Maryland Avenue S.W.  
Washington, D.C. 20202-4605 
 9. Upon graduation, transfer or permanent withdrawal of the 
student, District 125 will notify the parents/guardians and 
the student of the destruction schedule for the student’s 
permanent and temporary records and of their right to 
request a copy. 
 10.  Requests for District 125 to release a student’s records to 
any person other than the parents/guardians (or student 
age 18 or older) must be in writing.
 11.  Upon receipt of a court order of protection, the 
Principal will file it in the records of a student who is 
the “protected person” under the order of protection. 
No information or records shall be released to the 
Respondent named in the order of protection. When a 
student who is a “protected person” under an order of 
protection transfers to public or private school, or as 
soon as possible, the Principal will, at the request of the 
Petitioner, provide, within 24 hours of the transfer or as 
soon as possible, written notice of the order of protection, 
along with a certified copy of the order, to the school to 
which the student is transferring.
A summary of the types of records maintained by District 125 are listed below along with  
the officials or custodians of these records:
    RECORD TYPE OF RECORD    CUSTODIAN OF RECORD  
 a.  Directory Information  Permanent & Temporary  Registrar
 b.  Achievement Exam Data  Temporary  Counselor & Registrar
 c.  Courses/Grades  Permanent  Counselor & Registrar
 d.  Attendance Data Permanent  Dean & Registrar
 e.  Graduation Status  Permanent  Counselor & Registrar
 f.  Enrollment/Transfer Information  Permanent  Registrar & Counselor
 g.  IQ/Psychological Data  Temporary  Special Education/Psychologist
 h.  Family/Social History  Temporary  Special Education
 i.  Discipline  Temporary  Dean
 j.  Counseling Records  Temporary Counselor, Social Worker, Psychologist
 k. Activities and Awards Temporary Student Activities Director
 l.  Transcript Request Forms  Temporary Registrar
 m.  Health Records  Permanent School Nurse
 n.  Health-Related Information  Temporary  School Nurse
 o.  Accident Reports  Temporary  School Nurse
 p.  IEP’s and Special Education Records  Temporary  Special Education 
 q.  Section 504 Plans and Records  Temporary Student Services/Section 504 Coordinator
 r.  Home-school communications  Temporary Various