APPLIED ARTS–BUSINESS EDUCATION 17
ENTREPRENEURIAL TACTICS 
BUS411–Semester 1 BUS412–Semester 2 
Open to: 11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: 
One course required from:       and One course required from:
■	Introduction to Business ■	Investment Management
■	Business Law ■	Accounting 1 
■	Marketing ■	Accounting 2 Honors
■	Entrepreneurship ■	Advanced Accounting Honors
Credit: Accelerated
Entrepreneurial Tactics is a capstone course that ties together 
all the curricular fundamentals from the Business Education 
curriculum. This course models the research and concepts of 
a capstone course at many university business schools. In this 
project-based course, students work within teams to create 
a business plan that guides them in developing a business 
of their choice. Students will learn to work with and have 
first-hand collaboration with top business professionals from 
the community. These CFOs, CEOs and other top executives 
will visit, present and mentor the students in incorporating all 
the fundamentals of creating a business idea, marketing the 
product and preparing the finances of their business plan.
ACCOUNTING 1 
GPA WAIVER OPTION  
BUS251–Semester 1 Only
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep 
This is the first semester of a two-semester sequence in 
the study of accounting. It is strongly recommended that 
both semesters of accounting be taken in the same year. 
Accounting is currently the most in-demand college major. 
Basic principles and practices of double entry accounting 
are developed with an emphasis on the financial records of 
sole proprietorships and partnerships. Daily transactions 
and financial statement analysis are included. Students also 
have the opportunity to attend regional, state and national 
accounting competitions.
ACCOUNTING 2  
ARTICULATED CREDIT WITH COLLEGE OF LAKE COUNTY
BUS252–Semester 2 Only
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: Accounting 1 credit: honors 
This is the second semester of a two-semester sequence  
in the study of accounting. It is strongly recommended  
that this semester be taken immediately following 
Accounting 1. Specialized journal systems, uncollected 
accounts, depreciation, inventory controls, payroll, taxes and 
financial statement analysis are emphasized with regard to 
a corporation. Students also have the opportunity to attend 
regional, state and national accounting competitions.
ADVANCED ACCOUNTING
BUS351–Semester 1 Only
Open to: 11-12 One Semester 
Prerequisite: Accounting 2 credit: honors 
This one-semester course serves as a capstone to the 
advanced study of accounting. A “managerial approach” 
emphasizing the internal data used to make decisions 
and control revenues, costs and expenses is explored and 
developed. Acquiring capital, cash flows and principles of  
cost accounting are other areas of study. Accounting 
simulations and software applications are also used within  
the course. Students learn to work both independently and  
as a “management team” solving business accounting 
problems. Students also have the opportunity to attend 
regional, state and national accounting competitions.
BUSINESS LAW 
GPA WAIVER OPTION  
BUS371–Semester 1 BUS372–Semester 2 
Open to: 11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep 
This course is designed to satisfy the curiosity of students 
who are interested in learning about the law as it relates 
to various aspects of business. Students will gain a greater 
understanding of their legal rights and responsibilities as 
an individual, employee, manager and business owner. 
General legal topics discussed include contracts, property, 
employment rules and regulations, business organization, 
finance, as well as technology, environment, entertainment 
and sports law. Students will participate in daily discussions 
about current legal events, review “real world” cases and 
verdicts and participate in lively arguments and debates.  
In addition, guest speakers, collaborative team projects  
and small group activities allow for students to work together 
developing a greater understanding of the law to receive  
a more authentic learning experience.