SOCIAL STUDIES 95
SOCIOLOGY  
SOC541–Semester 1 SOC542–Semester 2 
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: World History and Geography
Credit: College prep 
The purpose of this course is to provide students with a 
chance to examine human social interaction and social 
organization. Sociology focuses on special topics such as 
groups, culture, socialization, deviance and inequalities 
(gender, social class, race, ethnicity). This class will explore 
these areas through sociological readings and engaging in 
discussing and simulation. Students will learn how to become 
more reflective of themselves, their community and their 
society. Students will be required to complete ten community 
service hours as an alternative to a traditional final exam. 
Upon completion of this course and required service hours, 
students should gain a better understanding of themselves 
and their place in the social world.
WORLD RELIGIONS
SOC501–Semester 1 SOC502–Semester 2 
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: World History and Geography
Credit: College prep 
This course is designed to introduce students to the major 
religions of the world. Students will analyze each religion’s 
foundations, historical development, principle themes and 
beliefs and cultural impact. Its primary purpose is to equip 
students with an understanding of the major ideas and 
practices of the world’s religions so that they may better 
understand the world in which they live. 
AP EUROPEAN HISTORY 
SOC601–Semester 1 SOC602–Semester 2 
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: World History and Geography
Credit: honors 
This course focuses on dominant ideas in the world today 
(democracy, industrialism, capitalism, communism, the 
scientific method) through the advanced study of European 
history, with a focus on understanding how European ideas, 
culture, politics and economics have shaped the world from 
1450 to the present. Students will collaboratively engage with, 
discuss and debate historical evidence in order to improve 
their capacities in: 1) historical comprehension, 2) historical 
analysis and 3) historical argumentation. As a result, students 
will learn that history is an interpretive, dynamic study of the 
past that empowers them to impact the future. Students who 
enroll in this course are prepared to take the AP European 
History exam in May.
AP HUMAN GEOGRAPHY
SOC611–Semester 1 SOC612–Semester 2 
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: World History and Geography
Credit: honors 
The purpose of the advanced placement course in human 
geography is to introduce students to the systematic 
study of patterns and processes that have shaped human 
understanding, use and alteration of our world. Students 
employ geographical and spatial concepts and tools to analyze 
topics such as human population movement and organization, 
cultural patterns and processes, political organization, 
agricultural and rural land use, industrialization and economic 
development and city and urban land use. Students will be 
expected to integrate college-level reading with maps, graphs 
and other spatial data sets to conduct analyses, apply models 
and draw conclusions. A summer reading assignment must be 
completed prior to beginning this course. Students who enroll 
in this course are prepared to take the AP Human Geography 
exam in May.
AP AFRICAN AMERICAN STUDIES
SOC691–Semester 1 SOC692–Semester 2 
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: World History and Geography 
Credit: honors
This year-long Social Studies elective credit course is 
designed to prepare students to meet the AP College 
Board interdisciplinary standards on their assessment. 
The course is designed to examine a diversity of African 
American experiences using authentic and varied sources 
of information. Students will study topics from early African 
kingdoms to the ongoing challenges and accomplishments 
of the present day. Recurring social studies inquiry skills 
of questioning, source analysis and argumentation will be 
developed using a variety of literary, historical, data set and 
visual forms of evidence. Students are required to complete a 
research project of their choice, drawn from topics or themes 
within the course, and submitted to AP as part of the AP Exam 
and scored by AP graders. Students who enroll in this course 
will be prepared to take the remainder of the AP African 
American Studies exam in May.