AP CHINESE LANGUAGE AND CUL TURE
CHI601–Semester 1 CHI602–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: Mandarin Chinese 4, THREE YEARS OF HIGH SCHOOL 
MANDARIN STUDY, or passing the placement exam for AP Chinese 
Language and Culture and approval of director
Credit: honors
This course is designed to prepare students for the  
AP Chinese Language and Culture exam, i.e. a level 
comparable to fourth semester (or equivalent) college/
university courses in Mandarin Chinese. The course focuses  
on language proficiency while dealing with level- and  
age-appropriate cultural content throughout the course. 
Students engage in readings, conversation and composition 
and research projects. The expectation is that all 
communication in the classroom takes place in the target 
language. By the end of the year, students will be able to 
understand the spoken language formally (lectures, news, 
etc.) and in conversation (dialogues…); to acquire vocabulary 
and structures that enable students to understand, analyze 
contextualized materials (advertisement, posters, newspaper, 
magazine articles, letters, etc.); to describe an event or activity 
in a cohesive and coherent manner with linguistic accuracy; to 
write appropriately employing the organization, vocabulary 
and structure appropriate to the purpose of their writing  
and to demonstrate cultural appropriateness through  
spoken and written discourse. 
CHINESE LITERATURE, MEDIA AND CUL TURE
CHI611–Semester 1 CHI612–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: AP Chinese Language and Culture or  
placement test
Credit: honors
Students continue to work to develop their competence in 
Chinese across the three modes of communication within the 
context of critical analysis of literature and media, as well as a 
close investigation of culture and social trends. Performance-
based assessments provide students the opportunity to 
use the language independently and collaboratively in both 
familiar and unfamiliar literary, media and cultural contexts. 
Interpretive listening, viewing and reading tasks are focused 
on both literal comprehension and inferential interpretation 
of both familiar and unfamiliar pieces of literature, media 
and culture. Practice is provided regularly, both within the 
classroom and at home. Throughout the course, students 
continue to explore the target culture as they are invited to 
situate their own experiences within new contexts.
SPANISH 1
SPA101–Semester 1 SPA102–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
Students begin to develop their competence in Spanish  
across three modes of communication: interpersonal, 
presentational and interpretative. They will explore the 
language in the context of the six AP themes: Global 
Challenges, Science and Technology, Contemporary Life, 
Personal and Public Identities, Families and Communities,  
and Beauty and Aesthetics. Performance-based assessments 
in the presentational and interpersonal modes provide the 
students the opportunity to use the language in practiced, 
familiar contexts. Interpretive listening and reading tasks 
are focused on the acquisition and recognition of basic 
stated information in the target language. Practice is 
provided regularly, both within the classroom and at home. 
Additionally, students explore the target culture, make 
comparisons and connections with their own experiences 
and come to view language learning as a lifelong pursuit. 
The expectation is that the communication in the classroom 
(teacher-student and/or student-student) take place  
primarily in Spanish.
SPANISH 2
SPA201–Semester 1 SPA202–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: Spanish 1 or passing the placement exam for 
Spanish 2 and approval of director
Credit: College prep
Students continue to work to develop their competence 
in Spanish across the three modes of communication 
in the context of the six AP themes. Performance-based 
assessments provide the students the opportunity to use 
the language in practiced, familiar contexts with increasing 
independence. Interpretive listening and reading are focused 
on the acquisition and recognition of key details in the target 
language. Practice is provided regularly, both within the 
classroom and at home. Students continue to explore the 
target culture in new contexts. The expectation is that the 
communication in the classroom (teacher-student and/or 
student-student) take place primarily in Spanish.
LANGUAGE LEARNING—MANDARIN CHINESE AND SPANISH 77