STUDENT LEARNING PROGRAMS102
ACADEMIC LITERACY 1 
The focus of this course provides instruction in the skills 
needed for success in high school and beyond. This course 
emphasizes fundamental literacy within all academic 
disciplines with a focus on those subjects and skills most 
appropriate to freshman year. Students will learn strategies 
to support reading, writing and listening and speaking 
skills in Science, Communication Arts, Social Studies and 
Mathematics. Depending on their benchmark and/or ongoing 
assessment results, this course may be required of some 
entering freshmen. This pass/fail course counts for one 
elective Communication Arts credit but is not an English 
graduation credit.
ACADEMIC LITERACY 2
This course provides in-depth instruction in the skills  
needed for success in high school and beyond, tailored 
to the curriculum needs of sophomores and juniors. This 
course emphasizes fundamental literacy within a variety of 
academic disciplines. Students will learn strategies to support 
reading, writing, listening and speaking skills in Science, 
Communication Arts and Social Studies. Depending on their 
benchmark, post-performance and/or ongoing assessment 
results, this course may be required of some students. This 
pass/fail course counts for one elective Communication Arts 
credit but is not an English graduation credit.
ACADEMIC LITERACY 2+
This course provides in-depth instruction in the skills  
needed for success in high school and beyond, tailored  
to the curriculum needs of sophomores and juniors. This 
course emphasizes fundamental literacy within a variety  
of academic disciplines. Students will learn strategies to 
support reading, writing, listening and speaking skills in 
Science, Communication Arts and Social Studies. Depending 
on their reading and literacy benchmark, post-performance 
and/or ongoing assessment results, this course may be 
required of a student to specifically focus on reading fluency 
and necessary reading comprehension skills. This course 
counts for one elective Communication Arts credit but is  
not an English graduation credit.
MENTOR MATH
A student is placed into Mentor Math upon the 
recommendation of the content teacher when in-class 
instruction is not fully sufficient to support the student in 
either Algebra 1, Geometry or Algebra 2. The class is designed 
to offer intensive, small group Mathematics instruction with a 
Mathematics teacher to reinforce current content and develop 
prerequisite skills. This course is pass/fail and counts for one 
elective mathematics credit per semester, but does not count 
toward the six math credits needed for graduation. Students 
must enter the course by the nine-week mark to receive credit.
GUIDED STUDY MATH
Guided Study Math is a supportive, non-credit course 
designed to help students strengthen their mathematics 
skills. Placement is determined by the student’s feeder 
school or Student Support Team (SST). Teachers of Algebra 
1, Geometry, or Algebra 2 can also make recommendations. 
In this course, a certified educator provides small group 
instruction focused on skill development, targeted practice 
and assignment completion. Weekly progress checks help 
students build positive academic habits and self-advocacy. 
While mathematics is the priority, support is available for 
other academic courses as well. The small class size allows  
for personalized attention and a customized learning 
experience for each student.
GUIDED STUDY
Guided Study is a supportive, non-credit course designed 
to help students strengthen skills in their current academic 
courses. Placement is determined by the student’s feeder 
school or Student Support Team (SST). In this course, a 
certified educator provides support for skill development, 
targeted practice and assignment completion. Weekly 
progress checks help students build positive academic habits 
and self-advocacy. The small class size allows for personalized 
attention and a customized learning experience for each 
student.
MENTOR SKILLS 
Mentor Skills is a course designed to help students 
achieve academic and social-emotional growth in a 
supportive environment that focuses on the district’s three 
social-emotional learning (SEL) skills: self-regulation, 
communication and connection, and decision-making. In 
addition, students develop executive functioning skills and 
habits of mind to support success in high school and beyond. 
Students are identified for the Mentor Skills class by their 
Student Support Team (SST) based on entrance criteria. 
Mentor Skills is a semester-long course that may be repeated 
for credit (a maximum of four semesters). 