LATIN 1
LAT101–Semester 1 LAT102–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
Latin 1 focuses on learning the basics of Latin grammar, syntax 
and vocabulary. This course is designed to enable students to 
read materials in Latin with ease and understanding and to 
write original Latin sentences employing the vocabulary and 
grammatical structures learned. Additionally, basic prefixes, 
suffixes and roots of vocabulary words and word families will 
be studied. This class will also cover topics in Roman history, 
mythology and culture.
LATIN 2
LAT211–Semester 1 LAT212–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: Latin 1 or passing the placement exam for  
Latin 2 and approval of director
Credit: Accelerated
Latin 2 focuses on refining students’ knowledge of grammar 
and syntax from Latin 1 in order to facilitate the translation 
of more complex passages. Readings will focus on daily life in 
Rome, mythology and the heroic ideal. In addition, students 
will complete a semester of vocabulary study based on 
Latin roots, which is designed to increase students’ English 
vocabulary. Students will also study prescription writing in 
Latin abbreviations, Latin in modern law and Latin in medicine 
and anatomy.
LATIN 3
DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE WITH LOYOLA UNIVERSITY 
LAT311–Semester 1 LAT312–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: Latin 2 or passing the placement exam for  
Latin 3 and approval of director
Credit: Accelerated 
Students will explore various selections of Latin literature. 
Students will continue to refine their skills in literal translation, 
sight translation, scansion and literary analysis both in the 
target language and in English in order to facilitate greater 
fluency in the reading of Latin literature. Authors that will be 
studied include Ovid, Catullus, Cicero, Plautus and Caesar. 
Caesar is studied in order to provide a bridge to advanced 
placement in fourth year.
AP LATIN
DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE WITH LOYOLA UNIVERSITY 
LAT621–Semester 1 LAT622–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12  Full Year 
Prerequisite: Latin 3 and approval of director
Credit: honors
Students will complete preparation for the AP Latin exam. 
Students will continue to refine reading, writing, listening 
and speaking skills. Training in translation, meter and poetic 
devices involved in the study of major Latin works of literature 
will be stressed. The students will become more comfortable 
in the reading and interpretation of Vergil’s Aeneid and 
Caesar’s De Bello Gallico. To achieve this endeavor, both the 
cultural component (history, politics, social structure and art) 
and the linguistic aspect (grammar, vocabulary and structure) 
will be emphasized. Students proceeding to AP Latin will be 
provided with summer readings by the classroom instructor. 
Students who enroll in this course will be prepared to take  
the AP Latin exam in May. 
MANDARIN CHINESE 1
CHI101–Semester 1 CHI102–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12  Full Year 
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
Mandarin Chinese 1 is an introduction to Chinese language 
and culture. It is designed for students who are not heritage/
native speakers*. Students begin to develop their competence 
in Chinese across the three modes of communication: 
interpersonal, presentational and interpretative in the 
context of the following global themes: Contemporary Life, 
Personal and Public Identities, Families and Communities 
and Beauty and Aesthetics. Performance-based assessments 
in the presentational and interpersonal modes provide the 
students the opportunity to use the language in practiced, 
familiar contexts. Interpretive listening and reading tasks are 
focused on the acquisition and recognition of basic stated 
information in the target language. By the end of the course, 
students will be able to communicate in Mandarin (the spoken 
language) and Hanzi (the written language) in a basic way in 
familiar contexts. Additionally, students explore the target 
culture, make comparisons and connections with their own 
experiences and come to view language learning as a lifelong 
pursuit. The expectation is that the communication in the 
classroom (teacher-student and/or student-student) take 
place primarily in Mandarin.
* There is a placement exam for heritage students or  
 students with prior knowledge that includes reading,  
 writing and a short interview. The results from the exam  
 will determine the appropriate course for the student.
LANGUAGE LEARNING—LATIN AND MANDARIN CHINESE 75