FINE ARTS—MEDIA ARTS 49
DIGITAL ART AND DESIGN 1
GPA WAIVER OPTION 
ART501–Semester 1 ART502–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
Note: Students may use their own Apple Pencil; however, students  
may check out a school-owned Apple Pencil for assignments.
This course is designed to introduce students to Adobe 
Photoshop and Procreate as drawing and graphic design tools 
and as a means of producing finished artwork. Students will 
have the opportunity to develop skills and be creative while 
digitally drawing, painting and manipulating photographic 
images with both Wacom tablets as well as the iPad and Apple 
Pencil. Projects will have fine arts, photography, media arts 
and graphic design components. 
DIGITAL ART AND DESIGN 2
GPA WAIVER OPTION 
ART511–Semester 1 ART512–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: Digital Art and Design 1 credit: College prep
Note: Students may use their own Apple Pencil; however, students  
may check out a school-owned Apple Pencil for assignments. 
This course is designed to be an advanced or second level for 
students interested in furthering their study and exploration 
of using Adobe Photoshop as well as Procreate as a drawing 
and graphic design tool. Students will have the opportunity to 
develop skills and be creative while digitally drawing, painting 
and manipulating photographic images with both Wacom 
tablets as well as the iPad and Apple Pencil. Students will 
be introduced to more complex concepts and techniques of 
media arts and graphic design. The course will have fine arts, 
photographic and commercial art components. 
2D ANIMATION
GPA WAIVER OPTION 
ART531–Semester 1 ART532–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: Digital Art and Design 1 credit: College prep
This course provides students the opportunity to study 
and explore 2D animation. Students will study the history 
of animation and work with 2D animation software to 
produce their own animated shorts, from initial concept 
and storyboarding through final rendering. Concepts and 
techniques in vector-based drawing, timing, key-framing  
and music and lip synchronization will be explored. 
3D ANIMATION 
GPA WAIVER OPTION
ART541–Semester 1 ART542–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: 2D Animation and/or director approval
Credit: College prep 
This course is designed for students with an interest in  
3D animation. Students will build upon the concepts, skills 
and techniques learned from 2D Animation to help them learn 
to use 3D animation software to create and animate their own  
3D models/characters. Polygon and NURB modeling, texturing, 
lighting and basic 3D key-frame/path animation will be 
explored. 
ART HISTORY
AP ART HISTORY
ART721–Semester 1 ART722–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: None credit: honors
This course is designed as an introductory college-level course 
in the history of art. Students will examine the major forms 
of artistic expression from prehistoric through contemporary 
cultures. They will study architecture, sculpture, painting and 
other art forms with intelligence and sensitivity. Students who 
enroll in this course will be prepared to take the AP Art History 
exam in May.