NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY
The four pillars of National Honor Society are: leadership, 
character, service and scholarship. Sophomores and juniors 
with a cumulative 3.90 weighted grade point average are 
reviewed for membership in National Honor Society by a 
faculty council selected by the principal. The faculty council 
reviews leadership, service and character for the selection 
process as per the National Association of Secondary School 
Principals’ Constitution.
Members are expected to attend all general meetings 
throughout the year. All members are expected to maintain 
their grade point average and have three service experiences, 
one of which must be a sustained experience and one of which 
must be NHS-sponsored. For more information regarding 
National Honor society, please visit the Stevenson High  
School website: www.d125.org.
HONOR GRADUATES
Students who have earned at least 42 credits at the end of 
seven semesters and who have a weighted cumulative grade 
point average listed below are eligible to be declared Honor 
Graduates:
 4.0 and above Highest Honors
 3.75-3.99  High Honors
 3.50-3.74  Honors
WAIVER POLICIES
ATHLETIC WAIVER POLICY: ELIGIBILITY
The athletic waiver from Physical Education is an option only 
for juniors and seniors. A student who has earned a Junior 
Varsity or Varsity letter may be eligible to preregister for an 
athletic waiver. Student athletes must register for athletics to 
receive a waiver and meet with their counselor.
Criteria for a non-credit waiver: A junior or senior  
athlete in one sport and six credit-bearing classes.
Criteria for a credit waiver: A junior or senior athlete in  
two sports and five credit-bearing classes.
Note: If a student athlete reduces the number of academic classes, fails 
to participate in a sport or for any reason fails to continue participating 
in a sport, they will be immediately placed in Physical Education by their 
school counselor. Depending on a student’s schedule, an elective course 
may have to be dropped to accommodate the Physical Education class.
ACADEMIC WAIVER POLICY: ELIGIBILITY
A senior may receive an academic waiver from Physical 
Education if the student is enrolled in six credit-bearing 
classes. The student must demonstrate that each of these 
classes are necessary to satisfy Stevenson graduation 
requirements and/or admission requirements of a  
post-secondary program.
A senior who receives an academic waiver from Physical 
Education will not receive credit for this course.
MARCHING BAND AND COLOR GUARD  
PHYSICAL EDUCATION (P.E.) WAIVER POLICY
Any student, grade 9-10-11-12, who is enrolled in Wind 
Ensemble, Symphonic Band, Wind Symphony, Freshman Band 
or Color Guard and is a member of the Marching Band may 
waive their P .E. requirement for the first semester. This waiver 
may be applied each fall semester throughout a student’s 
years of participation in Marching Band.
WWW.D125.ORG 11