SUPPORT PROGRAMS
STUDENT TUTORIAL PROGRAMS
Content area tutors are available in the ILC from 7 a.m.-5:30 p.m. 
and the ELC from 7 a.m.-3:30 p.m. on regular school days. 
Mathematics tutors are available in the ILC from 7 a.m.-5:30 p.m. 
on regular school days. Students are encouraged to work 
with a tutor to meet their academic goals. No appointment is 
necessary. 
MANDATORY TARGETED TUTORING
Mandatory Targeted Tutoring is an intervention for students 
who need additional assistance with specific course skills. 
A student is enrolled in Mandatory Targeted Tutoring when 
classroom performance demonstrates a need for additional 
support. A student is dismissed from Mandatory Targeted 
Tutoring at the discretion of the classroom teacher based on 
an examination of the learning trends. An email is sent to both 
the student and parents/guardians indicating the student’s 
requirement into and exit out of Mandatory Targeted Tutoring. 
Mandatory Targeting Tutoring sessions can be completed with 
a teacher or an ILC/ELC tutor. 
Content area tutors are available in the ILC and ELC on regular 
school days to provide Mandatory Targeted Tutoring. 
GUIDED STUDY LUNCH
Guided Study Lunch is an intervention for students who 
need additional assistance with course skills, classroom 
work completion and organization of school work in a daily, 
structured environment. A student is enrolled in Guided Study 
Lunch by their Student Support Team (SST) when classroom 
performance demonstrates a need for daily, structured, 
additional support for learning targets and/or classroom 
work completion and the student has chosen not to attend 
Mandatory Targeted Tutoring or other support interventions 
that are offered. A student is dismissed from Guided Study 
Lunch at the end of each semester or once the student has met 
exit criteria. Guided Study Lunch is for sophomores, juniors 
and seniors during half their lunch  
period (20 minutes).
GUIDED STUDY AFTER SCHOOL
Guided Study A/f_ter School is an intervention for students who 
need additional assistance with course skills, classroom work 
completion and organization of school work in a structured 
environment. A student is enrolled in Guided Study A/f_ter 
School by their Student Support Team (SST) when classroom 
performance demonstrates a need for daily, structured 
additional support for learning targets and/or classroom 
work completion and the student has chosen not to attend 
Mandatory Targeted Tutoring or other support interventions 
that are offered. A student is dismissed from Guided Study 
A/f_ter School at the end of each semester or once the student 
has met all exit criteria. Guided Study A/f_ter School is for 
freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors from 3:30-4 p.m. 
on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays in the QLC.
STUDENT LEARNING PROGRAMS 103