FINE ARTS—DANCE52
DANCE 4  
GPA WAIVER OPTION
DNC401–Semester 1 DNC402–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Dance 3 and/or placement by instructor
Credit: College prep
This course is designed for students who have achieved a 
high degree of technical skill. The class will work toward 
developing and enhancing performance qualities. The 
emphasis is on challenging students’ creative skills in 
order to strengthen versatility of movement styles through 
choreographic and compositional strategies. Students will 
also be introduced to leadership skills through assisting with 
or leading peers in instruction. Course content knowledge 
is enhanced through critical response and self-assessment 
activities. Students are required to attend and critique 
the Winter and Spring Dance Concerts. Students will also 
participate in the Dance Demonstration performance during 
first semester and the Day of the Dance performance during 
second semester. This course may be repeated for credit.
CONCERT DANCE
DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE WITH LOYOLA UNIVERSITY CHICAGO 
GPA WAIVER OPTION 
DNC501–Semester 1 DNC502–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Dance 4 or A senior who has completed Dance 3
Credit: HONORS 
Additional fees for dual credit may be imposed by the  
college/university.
This course is designed for students who have had  
advanced training in contemporary dance, as well as a  
strong background in ballet, jazz and composition. Concert 
dancers are responsible for maintaining a high quality of 
technical skill. The Concert Dance class will work toward 
developing and enhancing performance and choreographic 
skills in preparation for college-level dance study and/
or professional studio experience. Concert dancers will 
choreograph their own dances and perform in the Winter and 
Spring Dance Concerts. Daily and a/f_ter-school rehearsals will 
be scheduled one to two weeks prior to the opening of the 
Winter and Spring Concerts and attendance is mandatory. 
Students may also audition for guest choreographers. These 
rehearsals take place a/f_ter school and are required, if cast. 
Fees are approximately $150 for a/f_ter-school dance company 
expenses. Admission into Concert Dance is based on the 
submission of a portfolio submitted to and approved by the 
Dance Department. This course may be repeated for credit.
JAZZ FUSION
GPA WAIVER OPTION 
DNC321–Semester 1 DNC322–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
This course will introduce and review essential dance skills 
that pertain to the jazz dance genre. Over the semester of 
this jazz survey course, students will learn and engage in jazz, 
hip hop, musical theatre and dance fitness movement. With 
focus on creativity, discipline and technical development, 
dancers work in a nurturing atmosphere to build confidence 
and life/dance skills. The Jazz Fusion curriculum is designed 
to help dancers create a strong foundation through repetitive 
movement, dance vocabulary, discussion and explorations. 
No experience is necessary and this course may be repeated 
for credit.
TECHNICAL SKILLS
GPA WAIVER OPTION 
DNC311–Semester 1 DNC312–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: Dance 2 or higher, and/or teacher approval
Credit: College prep
This course will focus on honing technical dance skills by 
working on anatomical alignment, physical strength and 
flexibility. Students will practice technical movements such 
as jumps, turns and leaps. Students will also learn specific 
dance conditioning practices to increase the quality of dance 
execution. This course may be repeated for credit. 
DANCE LEADERSHIP
GPA WAIVER OPTION
DNC601–Semester 1 DNC602–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisites: Students must complete a minimum of one year  
in Dance 3 or Dance 4 and/or approval of instructors
Credit: College prep
Dance Leadership is a one-year course where students will 
intern and assist with dance instruction in a technique class. 
Dance leaders will learn and demonstrate the teacher-created 
combinations including warm-ups, across the floor and center 
combinations. Dance leaders will model proper technique 
and assist students. Dance Leaders will periodically work 
one-on-one with dance students in a peer mentoring fashion. 
While taking this course, the Dance Leaders will also meet 
individually with the teacher outside of class to learn what 
they will instruct at the end of each semester. They will also 
create exercises and a lesson that they will instruct at the end 
of each semester. Dance Leadership applications are available 
on the Dance website in early November and are due by 
December 5. This course may be repeated for credit.