NCAA ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS  
FOR DIVISION I AND II ATHLETES
Students who are interested in competing in athletics at the 
Division I or Division II collegiate level must meet the academic 
eligibility requirements of the National Collegiate Athletic 
Association (NCAA). For more information on the Division I and 
Division II eligibility requirements, please visit: www.ncaa.org/
student-athletes/future/academic-standards-initial-eligibility. 
For the most up-to-date list of Stevenson High School’s 
approved core courses: 
■	 Go to: https://web3.ncaa.org/hsportal/exec/
homeAction
■	 Type Stevenson’s code 143550 in the “NCAA High 
School Code” box, then select “Search”
■	 Select a core area or choose: “Show All Approved 
Courses”
■	 To view a PDF of initial coursework, visit:  
http://fs.ncaa.org/Docs/eligibility_center/Student_
Resources/IE_Brochure.pdf
Please contact your counselor with any questions or concerns 
regarding NCAA eligibility.
SCHEDULE CHANGES 
Each year, a new master schedule is created to accommodate 
students’ course selections. Students may modify their 
course requests at designated times during the spring and 
summer. Please note that schedule change requests may not 
be possible based on the availability of courses. Requests for 
teacher changes will not be honored. Students will be able to 
view their final schedule through Infinite Campus during the 
week before school begins. 
ONCE THE SEMESTER HAS BEGUN, SCHEDULE 
CHANGE REQUESTS MUST ADHERE TO THE  
FOLLOWING GUIDELINES:
ADDING A COURSE
Students may add a course in place of a free hour, study hall 
or another class during the first three days of a semester if 
space is available in the course. Students must consult with 
the teacher regarding make-up requirements for any missed 
content.
DROPPING A COURSE
Students may withdraw from a one-semester course up 
through the end of the first eight weeks of each semester. 
Please note that in a full-year course, students will only 
have the first three days of the second semester to drop. 
When dropping the second semester of a full-year course, the 
final first semester grade remains on the student’s transcript. 
Students must maintain a minimum of five courses for credit.
LEVEL CHANGES
On occasion, students may need to change the level of  
the class in which they are enrolled. In order to do so,  
students must:
■	 Initiate a level change discussion with their teacher
■	 Demonstrate that they have completed all homework 
and sought additional help from the teacher or 
learning center staff
■	 Demonstrate that they have discussed the level change 
request with their counselor
■	 Request that their teacher complete the “Level 
Change” form
■	 A/f_ter the teacher contacts the parents/guardians, the 
request will be forwarded to the counselor and content 
area director for approval.
Students must remain in class until the level change is 
approved by the director and made by the counselor.
Downward level changes will be permitted up through the 
end of the first eight weeks of the semester. The letter grade 
at the time of withdrawal from the class is the grade that 
accompanies the student to their new class. As the semester 
progresses, the teacher will review the student’s grade to 
ensure that it accurately reflects mastery of the new  
course’s learning targets.
SPECIAL SCHEDULING PROVISIONS
INDEPENDENT STUDY
The Independent Study option allows juniors and seniors,  
with a special interest in a subject, to pursue that area of 
interest in more detail or greater depth than the existing 
curriculum provides. Students who wish to undertake an 
independent study project must:
■	 Develop a proposal which includes clearly-stated goals, 
the learning activities designed to achieve these goals 
and a schedule detailing the timeline of the project
■	 Complete the “Independent Study” form  
located online
■	 Obtain parent/guardian, teacher, director and 
counselor approval of the project
■	 Solicit the help of a teacher advisor to supervise  
the study
■	 Be scheduled into a full-period course with the  
teacher advisor
■	 Attend that course every day
■	 Pursue the project with a minimum of direction
■	 Complete the project and report its results as agreed 
upon in the project proposal
ADLAI E. STEVENSON HIGH SCHOOL6