SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES106
AL TERNATIVE OFF-CAMPUS PROGRAMMING 
For students requiring intensified support systems and 
supervision, with extensive, related service programming that 
needs to be provided in a more immediate and centralized 
fashion, Stevenson High School supports alternate off-site 
placement within a variety of therapeutic settings. 
TRANSITION PROGRAM 
Stevenson High School’s Transition Service Program 
provides individualized skill development for Special 
Education students ages 18 through 21. The curriculum for 
the transition program includes learning targets focusing 
on the development and enhancement of daily living skills 
and vocational training in the areas of work behavior and 
communication.
Placement into the transition program is addressed on an 
annual basis by each student’s IEP Team upon completion of 
all Stevenson High School graduation requirements.
EXCEPTIONAL LEARNERS COLLABORATIVE (ELC)
The Exceptional Learners’ Collaborative, ELC, is a special 
education cooperative and joint agreement between four 
school districts located in Vernon Hills (Lake County), Illinois. 
The ELC will ensure support for the full continuum of services 
essential to providing services to our exceptional learners 
in District 125. Related service supports for students with an 
IEP include assistive technology consultation, occupational 
therapy, physical therapy, speech and language, social work, 
vision itinerant, hearing itinerant, psychological services, 
audiology and mobility services.
RELATED SERVICE SUPPORTS 
The Stevenson High School Special Education Program, in 
partnership with the Exceptional Learners Collaborative 
(ELC), offers comprehensive-related service supports 
including speech language, physical/occupational therapy, 
prevocational support/coordination and counseling.
HEARING/VISION ITINERANT SERVICES 
Itinerant support services are provided for students 
challenged with mild to severe vision/hearing exceptionalities, 
ensuring access to all school resources. These supports are 
provided through the Exceptional Learners Collaborative 
(ELC), which supports the provision of direct service and 
consultation with Special Education/mainstream staff. 