APPLIED ARTS–FAMILY AND CONSUMER SCIENCES22
FOOD AND NUTRITION
GPA WAIVER OPTION
FCS111–Semester 1 FCS112–Semester 2 
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep 
Food and Nutrition is a lab-based course where students  
gain the basic principles of food preparation in its relationship 
to nutrition and wellness. The course is centered on healthy 
food and lifestyle choices to engage student awareness of 
personal food choices, physical activity, dietary needs and 
engagement of athletic and academic performance. Students 
apply course content to analyze nutritional choices for 
themselves and others.
FOOD PREPARATION
GPA WAIVER OPTION
FCS221–Semester 1 FCS222–Semester 2 
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep 
Food Preparation is a lab-based course where students 
enhance their culinary skills in a hands-on environment. 
Students learn culinary techniques, making a wide variety of 
recipes that align with course skills. In this course, students 
will gain an understanding of food science principles in order 
to adapt recipes, sharpen culinary techniques and create 
culturally diverse recipes. Students will also tackle real life 
skills such as; budgeting, safety and sanitation, dietary needs, 
environmentally conscious methods of handling, storing and 
preparing food all while maintaining responsible lab usage 
and team collaboration.
GOURMET FOODS
GPA WAIVER OPTION
FCS321–Semester 1 FCS322–Semester 2 
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: Food Preparation credit: College prep
Gourmet Foods is a lab-based course where students  
develop advanced food preparation skills in baking and 
cooking while also exploring U.S. regional cuisine and  
gaining global perspectives of international cuisine. Students 
compete in culinary competitions, examine the culinary 
industry, hospitality, current food trends and our food supply 
while investigating major influences and controversies 
associated with producing and distributing food. Students 
focus on plating food in an aesthetically pleasing way,  
while considering flavor pairing and the development of  
innovative recipes.
LIFE BY DESIGN
GPA WAIVER OPTION
FCS411–Semester 1 FCS412–Semester 2 
Open to: 10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep 
In Life by Design, students explore a variety of topics designed 
to help them meet the challenges of life. Curriculum topics 
work to enhance the social and emotional development of 
young adults. Students gain an enhanced understanding of 
self, increase awareness of others, learn to develop healthy 
relationships and heighten responsible decision-making skills. 
Students improve communication skills, reduce stress, build 
positive relationships with others, gain independence, express 
emotions, set goals, improve time management and make 
decisions based on personal values. Live a life by design,  
not a life by default. 
HUMAN GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT
GPA WAIVER OPTION
FCS211–Semester 1 FCS212–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
Human Growth and Development explores the world of the 
developing individual. Students will examine the physical, 
intellectual, social, emotional and moral development of 
humans from prenatal development through adolescence. 
This course will investigate the psychological concepts 
that apply to everyday life, while exploring the dynamic 
interactions between individuals and the diverse contexts 
that shape our growth and development. This course is a 
prerequisite for the course Teaching Young Children 1.