COMPUTER SCIENCE, ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY (CSET)36
AP COMPUTER SCIENCE PRINCIPLES
CSC371–Semester 1 CSC372–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: ALGEBRA 1 credit: honors
AP Computer Science Principles is a college-level  
computing course that introduces students to the breadth of 
the computer science field. Students learn to design/evaluate 
computing solutions and apply computer science to solve 
problems through algorithms and event-driven JavaScript 
program development. Students will discover the extensive 
role of abstraction throughout computing and incorporate it 
into their programs. They will learn how digital information 
and the internet work, as well as how encryption protects 
internet transactions. Students will program utilizing libraries 
and data sets and learn the importance of data in modern 
computing in terms of visualizations and machine learning. 
They will connect computing to today’s world and explore its 
real-world impact and implications in almost every area of 
life. Students will find opportunities to be challenged and to 
discover the creativity within computing, regardless of their 
programming background. Students who enroll in this course 
will be prepared to take the AP Computer Science Principles 
exam in May.
COMPUTER SCIENCE ALGORITHMS
CSC421–Semester 1 CSC422–Semester 2 
Open to: 11-12  Full Year
Prerequisite: AP Computer Science A (CSC391/CSC392)
CREDIT: Honors
This full-year course is intended for students who have 
successfully completed AP Computer Science A (CSC391/392)
and are looking to deepen their understanding of computer 
programming concepts. Algorithms are at the heart of every 
computer program used in the tech industry today. In order 
to create applications that run efficiently and correctly, 
programmers must design and implement algorithms for  
their programs. This makes the study of algorithms essential 
for computer programming. The course will introduce 
students to the fundamentals of designing algorithms, as  
well as proving their correctness and analyzing their efficiency. 
A variety of algorithm design techniques will be explored with 
common problems such as searching and sorting. The design 
and implementation of elementary data structures such as 
linked lists, hash tables and binary search trees will be  
covered as well.
MOBILE APP DEVELOPMENT
GPA WAIVER OPTION 
CSC251–Semester 1 CSC252–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 ONE SEMESTER
Prerequisite: Computer Programming 1 (CSC161/162), or Web 
Development 2 (TEC281/282), or Principles of Engineering 
(TEC301/302) or AP Computer Science Principles (CSC371/372)
Credit: College prep 
This full-year course introduces students to the world of  
app development for mobile devices (such as smartphones 
and tablets). Students will work in a collaborative, lab-based 
environment that utilizes industry-standard processes and 
development strategies similar to those a professional app 
development company might employ. Each unit begins by 
introducing students to specific skills and ideas that will be 
used to modify and redesign existing mobile apps. Each unit 
concludes with students applying the concepts learned to 
create an application on their own. Topics include: event-
driven programming strategies, app structure, algorithm 
design and user-interface design. Successful completion  
of this course provides students with a strong command  
of the fundamental strategies necessary to develop high 
quality apps. 