FINE ARTS—MUSIC 55
WIND SYMPHONY* 
GPA WAIVER OPTION 
MUS131–Semester 1 MUS132–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 (Qualified Students) Full Year
Prerequisite: Audition with BAND FACULTY
Credit: College Prep
Students in grades 10-12 with band experience may 
audition to enroll in Wind Symphony to continue work on 
comprehensive musicianship skills. Wind Symphony members 
also perform in four formal concerts throughout the year. 
For the first eight to nine weeks of the first semester, band 
students may choose to perform in the highly acclaimed 
Marching Patriots with members of the Freshman Band, 
Symphonic Band and Wind Ensemble. Students electing to 
participate in Marching Band may receive a P .E. waiver for the 
first semester. This course may be repeated for credit.
WIND ENSEMBLE* 
GPA WAIVER OPTION (FOR COLLEGE PREP ONLY)
MUS141–Semester 1 MUS142–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 (Qualified Students) Full Year
Prerequisite: Audition with BAND FACULTY
Credit: College Prep with Accelerated Option
Students in grades 10-12 with band experience may 
audition to enroll in Wind Ensemble to continue work on 
comprehensive musicianship skills. Wind Ensemble also 
performs in five annual concerts at Stevenson High School  
and may also participate in additional performance 
opportunities or festivals. For the first eight to nine weeks 
of the first semester, band students may choose to perform 
in the highly acclaimed Marching Patriots with members of 
the Freshman Band, Symphonic Band and Wind Symphony. 
Students electing to participate in Marching Band may  
receive a P .E. waiver for the first semester. This course may  
be repeated for credit.
CHOIR
STEVENSON SINGERS
GPA WAIVER OPTION 
MUS201–Semester 1 MUS202–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
This ensemble is an entry level singing course, available to all 
students of all grade levels, regardless of previous experience. 
This course focuses on developing fundamental skills for 
individual and group singing, and comprehensive musician 
skills. Stevenson Singers perform at five school concerts 
throughout the year. This course may be repeated for credit.
ADVANCED CHORUS
GPA WAIVER OPTION (FOR COLLEGE PREP ONLY)
MUS211–Semester 1 MUS212–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 (Qualified Students) Full Year
Prerequisite: Audition with choir faculty
Credit: College Prep with Accelerated Option
Experienced sopranos and altos may audition for this 
advanced vocal ensemble. Students will continue to work 
on developing more advanced skills for individual and 
group singing, as well as comprehensive musicianship. 
This ensemble performs at five school concerts and may 
also participate in additional performance opportunities or 
festivals. Seniors may earn accelerated credit in this course. 
This course may be repeated for credit.
PATRIOT SINGERS
GPA WAIVER OPTION (FOR COLLEGE PREP ONLY)
MUS221–Semester 1 MUS222–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 (Qualified Students) Full Year
Prerequisite: Audition with choir faculty, treble voices need to 
have completed one year in Advanced Chorus
Credit: College Prep with Accelerated Option
Experienced students of all voice parts may audition for  
Patriot Singers. This is an advanced SATB vocal ensemble, 
where students will be challenged with a wide variety of 
repertoire, and further develop advanced musicianship 
skills. The Patriot Singers perform at five school concerts, 
community events and may also participate in additional 
performance opportunities or festivals. Seniors may earn 
accelerated credit in this course. This course may be  
repeated for credit.
* IMPORTANT NOTE FOR ALL BAND CLASSES: 
In order to earn a P .E. waiver, all band students who participate in the 
Marching Patriots must be available for rehearsals during summer 
and fall evenings. Students must also obtain all necessary GPA waiver 
approvals.
Note: Seniors who are enrolled in Wind Ensemble, Patriot Orchestra,  
Patriot Guitar Ensemble, Patriot Singers and Advanced Chorus and 
have been active for four semesters in performing ensembles, earn 
accelerated-level grade points unless requesting a GPA waiver. Band 
students participating in Marching Band are offered a P .E. waiver for  
the first semester.