AP MACROECONOMICS
SOC641–Semester 1 SOC642–Semester 2 
Open to: 11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: World History and Geography
Credit: honors 
The purpose of an advanced placement course in 
macroeconomics is to give students a thorough understanding 
of the principles of economics that apply to an economic 
system as a whole. The course places particular emphasis on 
the study of national income and price-level determination, 
and also develops students’ familiarity with economic 
performance measures, the financial sector, stabilization 
policies, economic growth and international economics. It 
places emphasis on the different philosophies and theories 
associated with macroeconomic analysis and policy. Students 
will analyze both basic and extensive economic concepts in 
order to become informed economic consumers, producers 
and suppliers. Students who enroll in this course are prepared 
to take the AP Macroeconomics exam in May. Successful 
completion of this class fulfills the Economics/Personal 
Finance graduation requirement.
AP MICROECONOMICS
SOC651–Semester 1 SOC652–Semester 2 
Open to: 11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: World History and Geography
Credit: honors 
This is an advanced placement level course preparing  
students for the AP Microeconomics exam. Coursework in  
AP Microeconomics includes: the basic economic problem, 
the nature of markets, the firm, the factor markets and the 
role of government. Successful completion of this class fulfills 
the Economics/Personal Finance graduation requirement. 
Students who enroll in this course are prepared to take the  
AP Microeconomics exam in May.
PHILOSOPHY AND POLITICAL THEORY 
DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE WITH LOYOLA UNIVERSITY CHICAGO
SOC671–Semester 1 SOC672–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 One Semester
Prerequisite: World History and Geography
Credit: honors
Additional fees for dual credit may be imposed by the  
college/university. 
What is the meaning of life? What is reality? How do I know 
what I know? This course introduces philosophies and political 
theories by which humans have attempted to understand and 
organize their world. It is a college-level elective that explores 
major world philosophies, their influence on each other and 
their influence on the present. Students will contemplate 
ethical dilemmas to cultivate more thoughtful decision 
making in their lives. Students will learn the theories of major 
philosophers and utilize those ideas in discussion, debates 
and written assignments. Students will synthesize those ideas 
into a personal philosophy of their own. Upon successful 
completion of course requirements, students electing to 
receive dual credit from Loyola University Chicago will  
receive three credit hours for Philosophy 130: This course 
introduces students to the fundamental philosophical issues 
that bear on our understanding of persons in three equally 
weighted components, namely, Persons & Knowledge,  
Persons & Values, and Persons & Reality.
GOVERNMENT 
SOC401–Semester 1 SOC402–Semester 2 
Open to: 12 One Semester
Prerequisite: World History and Geography, U.S. History
Credit: College prep
Topics considered in this course include the fundamental 
concepts and structure of federal, state and local government; 
methods of selecting candidates for office; methods by which 
individuals and groups may influence government officials 
and mechanics of voting. Instruction and assessment will 
address the principles of representative government, as 
enunciated in the American Declaration of Independence,  
the U.S. Constitution and the Constitution of the  
State of Illinois. This course satisfies the Illinois civics 
requirement for high school graduation and Stevenson’s 
graduation requirement of one semester of government.
SOCIAL STUDIES98