SOCIAL STUDIES 99
POLITICAL THOUGHT AND ITS LITERATURE 
SOC561–Semester 1 SOC562–Semester 2 
Open to: 12 One Semester
Prerequisite: U.S. History and Junior English
Credit: College prep
This one-semester elective course, which can be taken as 
an English credit or social studies credit, helps students 
develop skills in the areas of reading, literary analysis, writing, 
oral communication and research in order to help them 
be better prepared for future education. Students explore 
the overarching themes of the course—the individual’s 
understanding of self and others, individualism v. collectivism 
in democracy, ethics and morals, political partisanship, race 
relations, diversity, income inequality, politics and media 
relations, civil liberties and many other important political 
issues—through short stories, essays, articles, novels, poetry, 
drama and other intriguing texts. Through their reading 
and inquiry, students are introduced to various stylistic 
techniques that help them learn strategies to improve their 
reading comprehension, writing, listening and speaking 
skills. Students write in multiple formats throughout the year, 
including narrative and argumentative, which is a framework 
for critical thinking. Authentic class discussion plays a vital 
role in that students talk in class as a means of enhancing their 
speaking and listening skills as a critical thinker. Students will 
participate in a mock trial, reach outside of the community, 
participate in class discussions and examine what it means 
to develop a world view and what it means to be a political 
scientist. 
AP PSYCHOLOGY 
SOC661–Semester 1 SOC662–Semester 2 
Open to: 12 Full Year
Prerequisite: World History and Geography, U.S. History
Credit: honors
The purpose of the year-long, advanced placement course 
in psychology is to introduce students to the systematic and 
scientific study of the behavior and mental processes of 
humans and animals. This course will provide the student 
with a learning experience equivalent to that obtained in 
an introductory college psychology course. The course 
satisfies the psychology requirement typically needed by 
students wishing to pursue a career in business, engineering, 
education, law, medicine and any other health-related fields 
(including preparation for the MCAT). Particular emphasis 
includes neuroscience, sleep, mental illness and treatment, 
memory, personality and social psychology. Students who 
enroll in this course are prepared to take the AP Psychology 
exam in May.
AP PSYCHOLOGY—BLENDED OPTION
SOC6B1–Semester 1 SOC6B2–Semester 2
Open to: 12 Full Year
Prerequisite: World History and Geography, U.S. History
Credit: honors
AP Psychology is also offered in a blended learning setting. 
The same course requirements are met. The blended format is 
a combination of traditional in-person classroom instruction, 
small group or individualized sessions and asynchronous 
learning activities during class time. Students still meet for 
a period of AP Psychology at a set period each day with the 
teacher determining for students the type of class setting  
for the day. Most weeks the course meets in person on two  
or three days each week for face-to-face instruction. On  
non-face-to-face days, the instructor will be in the classroom 
and available to answer questions or offer additional support 
while students are doing work in the classroom or other 
designated locations around the school building. If a student 
is absent on an in-person day they must meet with the 
instructor on the next non-attendance day. This blended  
AP Psychology course will involve using technology to  
provide every student with a more unique learning experience, 
including greater individual autonomy with regards to the 
location, pace and time when learning occurs.