EXCLUSIONS
The following courses are not included in the calculation  
of a student’s grade point average:
■	 Driver Education
■	 Courses with grades of pass (P) or fail (F)
■	 Correspondence courses
■	 Audit, independent study and GPA-waived courses
■	 External credit courses
■	 Any course in which the regular outcomes have been 
significantly modified for an individual student
GRADE POINT WAIVER
Students have the option of applying to exclude certain 
courses from the calculation of their grade point average 
(GPA). These courses are those which are not considered part 
of the academic core and which do not fulfill a Stevenson 
graduation requirement. Included in this waiver option are:
■	 All college preparatory-level Applied Arts courses
■	 All college preparatory-level Fine Arts courses
■	 All college preparatory-level Computer Science, 
Engineering and Technology (CSET) courses
■	 Broadcast Journalism, Journalistic Writing and 
Advanced Journalistic Writing courses
■	 Physical Education Leadership, Pool Leadership and 
Applied Health courses
■	 All college-prep level summer school courses which  
are not part of the regular school year course offerings 
(See Summer School Coursebook for specific courses 
and deadlines for submission.)
To be eligible for a waiver, the student must be enrolled in  
four or more courses per semester which are included in the 
GPA. The “Request for GPA Waiver” form is available online.  
All waivers must be requested; no courses will have an 
automatic waiver. Please see the Summer School Coursebook 
for specific information regarding courses and deadlines 
offered during the summer.
TRANSFER STUDENTS
The records of transfer students will be evaluated  
individually to determine the credits which may be applied 
toward Stevenson graduation requirements. Coursework 
completed by students prior to their enrollment at Stevenson 
will not be included in the calculation of the student’s GPA. 
Any coursework completed by students through international 
schools prior to their enrollment at Stevenson will be given  
a grade of pass (P) or fail (F). The division director will make 
the final determination in the evaluation of the records of  
the transfer student. Transfer students are encouraged to 
submit a transcript directly from each school attended when 
fulfilling transcript requests to ensure the most accurate 
representation of their academic experience.
HOMEWORK REQUESTS
Students are responsible for requesting and making up 
classwork if they are absent from class.
When students are absent from class, please follow  
these suggestions:
■	 Review assignment sheet, if available
■	 Review the class Canvas page
■	 Email the teacher
■	 Utilize the Interactive Report Card (IRC)
■	 Contact each teacher on their homework policy
If a student is out longer than five consecutive days, please 
contact their counselor to develop a plan.
INCOMPLETE GRADE
Students who receive a grade of “Incomplete” must complete 
the necessary make-up work in a timely fashion according 
to each teacher’s guidelines before a letter grade will be 
assigned. Incomplete grades do not count towards credits 
needed for athletic and co-curricular eligibility.
WWW.D125.ORG 9