SPANISH 2-3
SPA211–Semester 1 SPA212–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: Spanish 1 or passing the placement exam for 
Spanish 2-3 and approval of director
Credit: Accelerated
In comparison to Spanish 2, Spanish 2-3 has a faster pace and 
students are asked to engage in interpersonal, presentational 
and interpretive tasks at more advanced proficiency levels. 
Students continue to work to develop their competence in 
Spanish across the three modes of communication in the 
context of the six AP themes. Performance-based assessments 
provide the students the opportunity to use the language in 
practiced, familiar contexts as well as occasional unfamiliar 
topics with increasing independence. Interpretive listening 
and reading are focused on the acquisition and recognition 
of key details with emerging evidence of inference making in 
the target language. Practice is provided regularly, both within 
the classroom and at home. Students continue to explore 
the target culture in new contexts. In this course, students 
also begin reading poems and short stories by authors who 
appear on the AP Spanish Literature and Culture reading list. 
The expectation is that the communication in the classroom 
(teacher-student and/or student-student) take place  
primarily in Spanish.
SPANISH 3
SPA301–Semester 1 SPA302–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: Spanish 2 credit: College prep 
Students continue to work to develop their competence in 
Spanish across the three modes of communication in the 
context of the six AP themes. Performance-based assessments 
provide the students the opportunity to use the language in 
familiar contexts independently. Interpretive listening and 
reading tasks are focused on literal comprehension with 
increasing emphasis on inferential interpretation. Practice  
is provided regularly, both within the classroom and at  
home. Students continue to explore the target culture in  
new contexts. The expectation is that the communication  
in the classroom (teacher-student and/or student-student)  
take place primarily in Spanish. 
SPANISH 3-4
SPA311–Semester 1 SPA312–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: Spanish 2-3 or passing the placement exam for 
Spanish 3-4 and approval of director
Credit: Accelerated 
Students continue to work to develop their competence in 
Spanish across the three modes of communication in the 
context of the six AP themes. Performance-based assessments 
provide the students the opportunity to use the language 
independently in unfamiliar contexts. Interpretive listening 
and reading tasks are focused on both literal comprehension 
and inferential interpretation. Practice is provided regularly, 
both within the classroom and at home. Throughout the 
course, students continue to explore the target culture in 
new contexts. In comparison to the college prep sequence 
of courses, Spanish 3-4 accelerated has a faster pace and 
students are asked to engage in interpersonal, presentational 
and interpretive tasks at more advanced proficiency levels. 
In this course, students also continue reading authentic 
literature including poems, short stories and plays. The 
expectation is that the communication in the classroom 
(teacher-student and/or student-student) take place  
primarily in Spanish.
INTERMEDIATE SPANISH LANGUAGE ARTS
SPA351-SEMESTER 1  SPA352-SEMESTER 2
OPEN TO: 9-10-11-12 FULL YEAR
Prerequisite: Intermediate or higher proficiency as demonstrated 
on Spanish language proficiency assessment (e.g., AAPPL), teacher 
recommendation, or director approval 
Credit: Accelerated
This course is designed specifically for students with lived 
Spanish language experience, either from prior schooling in 
a Spanish-speaking country or as native/heritage speakers 
of Spanish. Students will develop their literacy skills in 
Spanish as they explore literature from the Spanish-speaking 
world and engage in focused development of writing skills. 
Additionally, students will develop critical thinking and oracy 
skills in Spanish as they collaboratively explore topics related 
to current events, culture and media.
LANGUAGE LEARNING—SPANISH78