MATHEMATICS 67
MATHEMATICAL MODELING AND DESIGN 
MTH431–Semester 1 MTH432–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year  
Prerequisite: ANY PRECALCULUS COURSE 
Credit: College Prep
Mathematical Modeling and Design (MTH431/432) is a 
non-AP introductory study in mathematical modeling and 
design thinking. Modeling is quantifying and understanding 
real-world scenarios and phenomena to make informed 
decisions that help improve the conditions defined within 
the scenarios. Students will build on prior mathematics 
knowledge and applications of new skills (stochastic 
methods, statistical models, numerical analysis, graph 
theory, digital simulations, etc.). These will be applied to 
represent real-world situations using appropriate modeling 
technology. Productive collaboration and effective written and 
presentational communication will be emphasized. Students 
will explore overarching ideas of problem posing, assumption 
audits, strategic selection of mathematical algorithms and 
procedures, result analysis and feasibility, and continuous 
iteration. As a capstone project, students will design and 
successively improve a mathematical model to address a  
self-selected “problem of interest. ” 
A/f_ter completing this course, students may be interested 
in exploring descriptive and analytic methods of statistics 
(AP Statistics MTH461/462) and data management and 
visualizations (Data Science MTH481/482).
DATA SCIENCE
MTH481–Semester 1 MTH482–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year
Prerequisite: Algebra 2 or Algebra 2 AB/BC
Credit: College Prep
Data Science (MTH481/482) is an emerging field focused 
on formulating relevant questions and gathering, managing 
and analyzing data to propose practical solutions. In this 
non-AP introductory course, students will explore the tools 
of descriptive, diagnostic, and predictive data analysis and 
data presentation. Students will work independently and 
collaboratively with applications of the data science cycle in 
real-world scenarios and use written and visual presentations 
to communicate their analysis and reasoning. Topics of 
study will include data analysis, sampling, data visualization, 
correlation/causation, bias and uncertainty, probability, 
modeling with data, constructing and evaluating data-based 
arguments, and comprehending the societal impact of data. 
A/f_ter completing this course, students may be interested 
in exploring descriptive and analytic methods of statistics 
(AP Statistics MTH461/462), and modeling and simulations 
(Mathematical Modeling and Design MTH431/432). 
ADVANCED MATHEMATICAL DECISION MAKING
MTH441–Semester 1 MTH442–Semester 2
Open to: 12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: Algebra 2 Credit: College Prep 
Advanced Mathematical Decision Making (MTH441/442)  
is a capstone non-AP course that prepares students for  
post-secondary workforce opportunities and non-STEM 
college majors by strengthening quantitative, collaborative 
and communication skills. Students will develop quantitative 
literacy with an emphasis on numeracy (quantities, rates, 
estimation, the reasonableness of results, probability, 
combinatorics, etc.), algebraic thinking (ratios, proportions, 
numeric operations, algebraic operations, etc.) and modeling 
(functions, data summaries, analysis, decision making, 
justification, etc.). Students will be exposed to real-world 
contexts (finance, statistics, networks) and apply their learning 
to real life experiences and future workforce opportunities. 
Cooperative groups are central to helping students understand 
learning outcomes and completing class presentations and 
projects. This course is closed to students who have completed 
Precalculus (MTH451/452) or any AP mathematics coursework.
Qualifying senior students who meet College of Lake County 
parameters will earn direct placement into a post-secondary 
credit-bearing mathematics course at Illinois community 
colleges and some Illinois four-year universities without a 
college math placement test. See your school counselor for 
details.
AP STATISTICS
MTH461–Semester 1 MTH462–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: Completion of Precalculus or  
completion/concurrent enrollment in AP Precalculus
Credit: Honors
AP Statistics (MTH461/462) is a full-year course designed  
to be the equivalent of a first-semester college-level  
non-calculus-based statistics course. This course explores 
variation and distribution, patterns and uncertainty, and  
data-based predictions, decisions and conclusions. These 
skills are widely applicable to various Science, Technology, 
Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) disciplines and the 
study of business, social sciences and data analytics. In this 
introductory course, students develop statistical literacy 
by exploring data (describing patterns and departures from 
patterns), sampling and experimentation (planning and 
conducting a statistical study), anticipating patterns (exploring 
random phenomena using probability and simulation) and 
statistical inference (estimating population parameters and 
testing hypotheses). 
A/f_ter completing this course, students may be interested in 
exploring modeling and simulations (Mathematical Modeling 
and Design MTH431/432) and data management and 
visualizations (Data Science MTH481/482). The course design 
prepares students for the College Board AP Statistics Exam.