APPENDIX 
LEGAL NOTICE TO STUDENTS AND PARENTS/GUARDIANS 
CONFIDENTIALITY OF STUDENT RECORD INFORMATION
In accordance with the provisions of the Family Educational 
Rights and Privacy Act and its regulations, the Illinois School 
Student Records Act and its regulations, and Board Policy 7:340, 
Student Records, and its administrative procedures, each parent/
guardian and student is advised as follows:
 1. Directory information may be released to the general 
public without written consent from a parent/guardian, 
unless a parent/guardian requests that such information 
not be released. Any parents/guardians who do not want 
such information to be made public should check “l do 
not wish to release information” under the Request to 
Release Student Information when completing the Online 
Registration during the summer. Parents/guardians may 
also make such requests by contacting the District office. 
Directory information is limited to:
 a.  Student’s Name
 b.  Student’s Address
 c.  Parent’s or Guardian’s Name
 d.  Parent’s or Guardian’s Mailing Address
 e.  Parent’s or Guardian’s Telephone Number
 f.  Parent’s or Guardian’s Electronic Mail (E-mail) Address
 g.  Student’s Birth Date and Place
 h.  Student’s Gender
 i.  Student’s Grade Level
 j.  Student’s Major Field of Study
 k.  Student’s Dates of Attendance in School
 l.  Student’s Academic Degrees, Honors, and Awards
 m. Information in relation to the Student’s participation in  
School-Sponsored Activities, Organizations, and Athletics
 n. Photographs, videos, or digital images used for 
informational or news-related purposes (whether 
by a media outlet or by the school) of the student 
participating in school or school-sponsored activities, 
organizations, and athletics that have appeared in school 
publications, including but not limited to yearbooks, 
newspapers, or sporting or fine arts programs, except 
that: (i) no photograph highlighting individual faces will 
be used for commercial purposes, including solicitation, 
advertising, promotion or fundraising without the prior, 
specific, dated and written consent of the parent/
guardian or student, and (ii) no image on a school 
security video recording will be designated as directory 
information.
 2. District 125 maintains school records for each student. 
A school student record is any record that contains 
personally identifiable information of a student, or 
information that would link the document to a student, 
except for records kept in the sole possession of a 
staff member, which are destroyed no later than the 
student’s graduation or permanent withdrawal, and are not 
accessible or revealed to anyone other than a temporary 
substitute teacher; video or other electronic recordings 
created and maintained by law enforcement professionals 
working in the school or for security or safety reasons  
or purposes, provided the information was created at least 
in part for Law enforcement or security or safety reasons 
or purposes; and electronic recordings made on school 
buses. These consist of two types of records: permanent 
records and temporary records.
A student’s permanent record consists of:
 a.  basic identifying information, including the student’s name 
and address, birth date and place, gender,
 b.  academic transcript including grades, class rank, 
graduation date, grade level achieved, scores on college 
entrance examinations, and the unique student identifier 
assigned and used by the SIS,
 c.  attendance record,
 d.  health record,  
 e.  record of release of permanent record information,
 f.  scores received on all State assessment exams 
administered at the high school level, and
 g.  if not maintained in the temporary record, honors and 
awards received, information concerning the student’s 
participation in school-sponsored activities or athletics, 
or offices held in school-sponsored organizations.
  NO OTHER INFORMATION WILL BE PLACED IN THE STUDENT’S 
PERMANENT RECORD. The permanent records will be kept 
by District 125 for sixty (60) years after graduation, a 
transfer, or permanent withdrawal. A student’s temporary 
record consists of all information by which the student 
may be individually identified but is not required to be in the 
student permanent record. A student’s temporary records 
must include:
 a. a record of release of temporary record information,
 b.  scores received on the State assessment exams 
administered in the elementary grade levels 
(kindergarten through grade 8)
 c.  information regarding serious disciplinary infractions 
(those involving drugs, weapons, or bodily harm to 
another) that resulted in expulsion, suspension, or the 
imposition of punishment or sanction,
 d.  information provided under Section 8.6 of the Abused and 
Neglected Child Reporting Act,
 e.  completed home language survey form,
 f.  health-related information, and
 g.  Accident reports.
  The temporary record may include family background 
information, intelligence exam scores (group and individual), 
aptitude exam scores, reports of psychological evaluations 
(including information on intelligence, personality, and 
academic information), elementary and secondary achievement 
level exam results, participation in extracurricular 
activities, including any offices in school-sponsored 
clubs or organizations, honors and awards received, 
teacher anecdotal records, other disciplinary information, 
special education records, records associated with plans 
developed under Section 504, and any verified reports of 
information from non-educational persons or organizations 
of clear relevance to the education of the student. The 
temporary record will be destroyed five years after 
graduation, a transfer, or permanent withdrawal.
 
APPENDIX 107