WWW.D125.ORG 3
COURSE SELECTION
Each year, students meet with counselors to choose courses 
for the following academic year. Students are encouraged to 
work with counselors, teachers and parents to select courses 
that support their goals and interests and align with their 
health and wellness. Course verification sheets are sent home 
each spring to ensure accuracy. Freshman course placements 
are determined through criteria set by each division and 
will be shared with incoming freshman families shortly a/f_ter 
the orientation evenings in January. The master schedule 
is created each spring based on student course selections. 
Requests for course changes a/f_ter this point may not be 
possible due to course availability. 
Note: Students interested in any dual credit courses must meet 
admission requirements set forth by the crediting college/university.
GRADUATION PLANNER
We encourage all students to reach well beyond the  
minimum graduation requirements and to make the most 
of the educational opportunities that Stevenson provides. 
Freshmen, along with their counselors, begin the discussion 
of their four-year course plan in their Freshman Advisory and 
during Student-Counselor-Parent/Guardian-Engagement 
(SCoPE) meetings. Students are encouraged to review their 
four-year plan with their parents/guardians each year, before 
course selection begins, so that long-term curriculum goals 
can be planned and achieved as the students progress 
through their high school years. All students have the 
opportunity to update their plans at any time by meeting  
with their counselor. A planning worksheet is located at the 
back of this coursebook.
SCHOOL DAY SCHEDULE
The school day at Stevenson High School extends from  
8:30 a.m. to 3:25 p.m. Students are expected to be in 
attendance during these hours. There are eight, 47-minute 
periods in each school day, including a mandatory lunch 
period. “Early bird” classes are also offered in Physical 
Education and certain AP Science classes. Alternate schedules 
are followed periodically throughout the school year to allow 
for various activities and meetings.
COURSE LOAD
Every student must be enrolled in the following each semester:
■	 At least five credits of coursework
■	 A sixth supervised period (either an additional class  
or a full-period study hall)
■	 A Physical Welfare, Dance and/or Driver Education 
course (or meet the criteria to qualify for a waiver)
■	 Lunch period
Students must meet the State of Illinois requirement of  
300 minutes of supervision each day. 
COURSE AVAILABILITY
All courses listed in this coursebook require a sufficient 
number of student requests to run in a given year. If there 
is not sufficient interest in a particular course, it will not 
be provided during the upcoming school year. Sectioning 
decisions are made in early March. Counselors will contact 
students who may need to select another course.
STEVENSON HIGH SCHOOL  
MINIMUM GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS 
English  8 semesters/credits 
Mathematics 6 semesters/credits 
Biology  2 semesters/credits 
Physical Science  2 semesters/credits 
U.S. History  2 semesters/credits 
World History and  
Geography  2 semesters/credits
Government  1 semester/credit
Economics or 
Personal Finance  1 semester/credit 
Health  1 semester/credit 
Driver Education  1 semester/credit
Required Electives  2  semesters/credits 
Additional Credits  
and P .E.  17  semesters/credits
Total Credits 45  semesters/credits
SUGGESTED COLLEGE  
ADMISSION SEQUENCE 
English  8  semesters/credits 
Mathematics 6-8  semesters/credits 
Science  6-8 semesters/credits 
Social Science  6-8  semesters/credits 
Foreign Language  4-8 semesters/credits 