LANGUAGE LEARNING—SPANISH 79
SPANISH 4
SPA401–Semester 1 SPA402–Semester 2 
Open to: 11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: Spanish 3 credit: College prep 
Students continue to work to develop their competence in 
Spanish across the three modes of communication in the 
context of the six AP themes. Performance-based assessments 
provide the students the opportunity to use the language 
independently in unfamiliar contexts. Interpretive listening 
and reading tasks are focused on both literal comprehension 
and inferential interpretation. Practice is provided regularly, 
both within the classroom and at home. Cultural information 
and comparisons are drawn from authentic print, literary 
works and class discussion. Students will participate in 
classroom debates and facilitate classroom discussion 
through their own student-led presentation. Upon completion  
of this course, students will be prepared to enter into  
AP Spanish Language and Culture. The expectation is that 
the communication in the classroom (teacher-student and/or 
student-student) take place primarily in Spanish.
AP SPANISH LANGUAGE AND CUL TURE
SPA601–Semester 1 SPA602–Semester 2 
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: INTERMEDIATE SPANISH LANGUAGE ARTS, Spanish 4  
or Spanish 3-4
Credit: honors 
This course is designed to prepare students for the AP Spanish 
Language and Culture exam and provides a transition to the 
AP Spanish Literature and Culture course. Students continue 
to work to develop their competence in Spanish across the 
three modes of communication: interpretive, interpersonal 
and presentational, within the context of the six AP themes: 
Families and Communities, Science and Technology, Global 
Challenges, Contemporary Life, Personal and Public Identities, 
Beauty and Aesthetics. Performance-based assessments 
provide the students the opportunity to use the language 
independently in familiar and unfamiliar contexts. Interpretive 
listening and reading tasks are focused on both literal 
comprehension and inferential interpretation. Practice is 
provided regularly, both within the classroom and at home. 
Cultural information and comparisons are drawn from 
authentic print and audio-visual sources, literary works and 
class discussion. Students will research a variety of cultural 
topics and facilitate discussion through their own student-led 
presentations. The expectation is that the communication in 
the classroom (teacher-student and/or student-student)  
take place in Spanish. 
AP SPANISH LITERATURE AND CUL TURE
SPA611–Semester 1 SPA612–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: AP Spanish Language and Culture
Credit: honors
This course is designed to introduce students to the  
formal study of Peninsular Spanish, Latin American and  
U.S. Hispanic literature. The course aims to develop students’ 
critical reading and analytical writing skills in Spanish as well 
as their ability to make interdisciplinary connections and 
explore linguistic and cultural comparisons. This course will 
be conducted entirely in Spanish appropriate to this level and 
covers the entire official AP Spanish Literature and Culture 
reading list. Literary texts are grouped by themes and presented 
in chronological order within each of the following themes: 
las sociedades en contacto, la construcción del género, el 
tiempo y el espacio, las relaciones interpersonales, la dualidad 
del ser and la creación literaria. Students are expected to 
discuss literary texts and their different historical, sociocultural 
and geopolitical contexts in a variety of interactive oral and 
written formats in Spanish. Students who enroll in this course 
will be prepared to take the AP Spanish Literature and Culture 
exam in May. 
ADVANCED SPANISH CONVERSATION AND CUL TURE
SPA511–Semester 1 SPA512–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: Spanish 3-4, Spanish 4 or AP Spanish Language  
and Culture
Credit: College prep
Advanced conversation and culture builds upon the 
communicative focus in the presentational, interpretive and 
interpersonal modes from prior coursework, but will uniquely 
explore the language through a cultural lens. The aim of this 
course is to present how the language manifests itself in 
various regions of the Spanish-speaking world through both 
historical and contemporary settings. Students who like to 
travel or who are thinking about studying abroad in college 
will enjoy this course and the experience it will provide  
prior to graduation. In discovering Spanish throughout the 
world, students will also engage in film studies, literature and 
a comprehensive review of grammar, all of which will prepare 
them for continued language study at the university level. 
Teacher-student and/or student-student interactions  
are conducted exclusively in Spanish.