STUDY SKILLS PROGRAM
Study Skills is a special education course for students with 
Individualized Education Plans (IEPs). It provides specialized 
instruction in areas of identified disabilities and fosters 
independence and self-awareness. Students will work 
toward achieving their annual IEP goals and post-secondary 
outcomes.		
INSTRUCTIONAL COURSES 
Special education instructional courses are designed to meet 
the needs of students who require specialized instruction 
in the courses required for graduation. They are taught by a 
special education teacher and are only available to students 
with an individualized education plan.
AUTISM SPECTRUM (ASP) SUPPORT PROGRAM
The Autism Spectrum (ASP) Support Program is a strategy-
based program that serves as a platform for the development 
of social/emotional, executive functioning and core content 
skills for individual learners. Because these skills are 
pervasive in all coursework at Stevenson High School and 
beyond, students in this class will develop compensatory 
strategies to improve deficit areas through the application of 
evidence-based practices. A student’s support team bridges 
direct instruction and classroom support through regular 
collaboration and communication with their teachers, as 
well as push-in services taking place within the classroom. 
Students may participate in lessons to further develop social 
skills and independent living skills, based on the needs of each 
student. ASP study skills programming is individualized for 
each student, based upon individual IEP goals, services and 
transition plans. 
STRUCTURED LEARNING PROGRAM
The Structured Learning Program is designed to meet the 
needs of students requiring a highly structured, consistent 
learning environment. The program’s significantly 
individualized instruction focuses on increasing student’s 
self-management skills and independence, as well as further 
development of functional academic skills. The program  
offers a modified curriculum that is supplemented with  
one-to-one assistance and supervision throughout the  
school day.
SUPPORTED ACADEMIC AND INDEPENDENT LIVING 
(SAIL) 
The Supported Academic and Independent Living (SAIL) 
program offers a modified, functional curriculum for students 
with mild to moderate intellectual and functional deficits. 
The SAIL program focuses on functional academic skills, and 
independent living and prevocational skills. Students in the 
SAIL program participate in small group instruction to develop 
their foundational skills. 
EDUCATIONAL LIFE SKILLS PROGRAM (ELS)
The Educational Life Skills Program (ELS) is designed as a 
school-within-a-school, supporting students with moderate 
to severe functional and cognitive deficits. The ELS program 
offers individualized, one-to-one support as well as small 
group instruction. Student learning is highly modified 
and individualized per student based on their specific IEP 
goals. The ELS program emphasizes functional life skill 
domains, including adaptive skills, self-care, recreation/
leisure, community, vocational skill sets and communication. 
Students in the ELS program participate in community-based 
instruction to generalize skills.
ON-SITE AL TERNATIVE EDUCATION PROGRAM 
The Alternative Education Program (AEP) is a highly 
supervised program that addresses the individual needs 
of students with an IEP who have been challenged with 
emotional, behavioral and medical aspects of their education. 
AEP provides a separate and highly structured learning 
environment for students to meet graduation requirements 
and reach post-secondary transition goals. Through a non-
traditional setting, social-emotional learning is emphasized 
within the context of academic growth and achievement.
SPECIAL EDUCATION SERVICES 105