Independent study will count towards the 300-minute 
supervision requirement and P .E. waivers. Successful 
completion of an independent study project will result in  
a grade of “P” (Pass). Projects that are not completed will  
not receive a grade.
Credits will be determined by the director and teacher.
COURSE RETAKE POLICY
Students may retake any course, however, the original grade 
will remain on the transcript. The GPA will be determined by 
using the points from the higher of the two grades. Duplicate 
credit will not be issued. Students must complete a “Course 
Retake” form available online before beginning the course. 
Courses taken at a lower level are not considered course 
retakes. Students may retake a course at a higher level if it 
is an equivalent course in terms of content. Course retake 
does count towards the 300-minute supervision requirement. 
Students wishing to retake a course in the summer at a 
different high school need to consult their counselor prior  
to registering to begin the approval process.
If a grade of “A” was earned the first time, then a course  
may not be retaken.
AUDITS
Audits do not count toward academic or athletic waivers, 
but they do count toward the 300-minute supervision 
requirement. Students who wish to audit a class may do  
so provided:
■	 They obtain an “Audit Request” form from their 
counselor
■	 There is availability in the classroom
■	 They request the audit within the first ten days  
of the semester
■	 Receive approval of the division director
■	 They attend the class each day, complete all 
assignments, take exams and finals and participate  
in all class activities
Students will be assigned the grade of “AU” (Audit); they 
receive no credit towards graduation nor points for inclusion 
in their grade point average.
If a student fails to fulfill a requirement in a course taken on an 
audit basis, the student will be withdrawn from the course. No 
record of enrollment will appear on the student’s transcript.
EXTERNAL CREDITS
Stevenson students may apply for up to four credits of external 
study toward the completion of elective credits required for 
graduation. Only elective courses necessary to satisfy the 
45 credits needed for graduation may be taken for external 
credit. A maximum of two external credits can be earned for 
a Multilingual Learning course. Courses offered at Stevenson 
will not be approved for external credit. External credits are 
not calculated in the grade point average (GPA). No external 
credits will be given for work done prior to the student 
entering high school in the fall term.
All external credits must come from accredited programs 
approved by the Assistant Principal for Teaching and Learning 
(e.g. summer school at another high school or a college/
university course). 
Students must apply for external credit. No credit will be given 
without an application. To apply for external credit, a student 
must meet with their counselor prior to taking the course to:
■	 Complete an “External Credit” form; and
■	 Provide a complete course description including 
information about the accredited institution, the 
program or course content and the number of  
contact hours
Upon completion of the course, the student will produce an 
official transcript mailed directly from the program to the 
registrar’s office at Stevenson High School. The approval 
process should be completed before the course is taken or 
Stevenson credit may not be given. 
SUMMER SCHOOL
Stevenson’s summer academic program offers opportunities 
for enrichment and remediation. Certain courses taken from 
this program become part of the student’s transcript. Summer 
courses may be taken during the student’s attendance in 
high school. Students must complete an “External Credit” 
form and request course approval prior to enrolling in any 
summer school class outside of Stevenson. Only courses not 
offered through Stevenson’s summer school are eligible for 
external credit. Students attending summer school in another 
accredited high school district must request that the school 
forward their grades to the Stevenson registrar. Summer 
school credit obtained at a high school other than Stevenson 
is considered external credit and is not included in the 
calculation of the student’s grade point average.
WWW.D125.ORG 7