HEBREW 1
HBR101–Semester 1 HBR102–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: None credit: College prep
Hebrew 1 is an introduction to the Hebrew language and 
Israeli culture. Students develop their competencies across 
three modes of communication: interpersonal, presentational 
and interpretative. Students become comfortable reading 
the print form of the Hebrew alphabet that appears in books 
and also learn the script form for writing. The course explores 
the language in the context of the six AP themes: Global 
Challenges, Science and Technology, Contemporary Life, 
Personal and Public Identities, Families and Communities 
and Beauty and Aesthetics. Performance-based assessments 
in the interpersonal, presentational and interpretive modes 
provides students with the opportunity to use the language 
in practiced, familiar contexts. Interpretive listening and 
reading tasks focus on the acquisition and recognition of 
basic stated information in Hebrew. The expectation is that 
the communication in the classroom (teacher-student and/or 
student-student) take place primarily in Hebrew. Additionally, 
students explore Israeli culture, make comparisons and 
connections with their own experiences and come to view 
language learning as a lifelong pursuit.
HEBREW 2
HBR211–Semester 1 HBR212–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: Hebrew 1 or passing the placement exam for  
Hebrew 2 and approval of director
Credit: Accelerated
Students continue to develop their competence in Hebrew 
across the three modes of communication: interpersonal, 
presentational and interpretive. Students also continue to 
learn in the context of the six AP themes: Global Challenges; 
Science and Technology; Contemporary Life; Personal and 
Public Identities, Families and Communities and Beauty and 
Aesthetics. Performance-based assessments provide the 
opportunity to use the language in practiced, familiar contexts  
with increasing independence. Interpretive listening and 
reading activities are focused on the acquisition and 
recognition of key details in Hebrew. The expectation is that 
the communication in the classroom (teacher-student and/or 
student-student) take place primarily in Hebrew. Additionally, 
students explore Israeli culture through a variety of contexts 
and authentic materials, such as short stories, essays, poems, 
songs, news reports, advertising and video clips from Israel. 
HEBREW 3
HBR311–Semester 1 HBR312–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: Hebrew 2 or passing the placement exam for 
Hebrew 3 and approval of director
Credit: Accelerated
Students continue to develop their competence in Hebrew 
across the three modes of communication: interpersonal, 
presentational and interpretive in a near-immersion 
environment. Students also continue to learn in the context of 
the six AP themes: Global Challenges, Science and Technology, 
Contemporary Life, Personal and Public Identities, Families 
and Communities and Beauty and Aesthetics. Performance-
based assessments provide us the opportunity to use the 
language independently in familiar contexts. Interpretive 
listening and reading activities are focused on the ability to 
interpret and infer meaning in Hebrew. Practice is provided 
regularly, both within the classroom and at home. The 
expectation is that the communication in the classroom 
(teacher-student and/or student-student) take place primarily 
in Hebrew. Students continue to explore Israeli culture 
through a variety of contexts and authentic materials, such as 
short stories, essays, poems, songs, news reports, advertising, 
art, video clips and movies from Israel.
HEBREW 4
HBR411–Semester 1 HBR412–Semester 2
Open to: 11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: Hebrew 3 or passing the placement exam for 
Hebrew 4 and approval of director
Credit: Accelerated
Students develop their competence in Hebrew and engage 
in higher-level reading, writing, listening and speaking 
activities that align with the interpersonal, presentational 
and interpretive modes of communication in an immersion 
environment. Students continue to learn in the context of the 
six AP themes: Global Challenges, Science and Technology, 
Contemporary Life, Personal and Public Identities, Families 
and Communities and Beauty and Aesthetics. Performance-
based assessments provide the opportunity to use the 
language independently even in unfamiliar contexts. 
Interpretive listening and reading activities are focused on 
both literal comprehension and inferential interpretation 
of the language. In Hebrew 4, classroom discussions and 
debates are led by the students. The expectation is that the 
communication in the classroom (teacher-student and/or 
student-student) take place primarily in Hebrew. Israeli culture 
continues to be explored through a variety of contexts and 
authentic materials, such as short stories, essays, poems, 
songs, print and broadcast news reports, advertising, art, 
video-clips, popular TV sitcoms and movies from Israel. 
LANGUAGE LEARNING—  HEBREW74