MANDARIN CHINESE 2
CHI211–Semester 1 CHI212–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12  Full Year 
Prerequisite: Mandarin Chinese 1 or passing the placement  
exam for Mandarin Chinese 2 and approval of director
Credit: Accelerated
In this course, students continue to work to develop 
their competence in Chinese across the three modes of 
communication in the context of the following AP themes: 
Contemporary Life, Families and Communities, Beauty 
and Aesthetics and Science and Technology. Performance-
based assessments in the presentational and interpersonal 
modes provide the students the opportunity to use the 
language in practiced, familiar contexts with increasing 
independence. Interpretive listening and reading are focused 
on the acquisition and recognition of key details in the target 
language. Students continue to explore the target culture in 
new contexts. The expectation is that the communication in 
the classroom (teacher-student and/or student-student) take 
place primarily in Mandarin.
MANDARIN CHINESE 3
CHI311–Semester 1 CHI312–Semester 2
Open to: 9-10-11-12  Full Year 
Prerequisite: Mandarin Chinese 2 or passing the placement  
exam for Mandarin Chinese 3 and approval of director
Credit: Accelerated
This course requires students to engage in interpersonal, 
presentational and interpretive tasks at more advanced 
proficiency levels. Students continue to work to develop 
their competence in Chinese across the three modes 
of communication in the context of the six AP themes. 
Performance-based assessments in the presentational and 
interpersonal modes provide the students the opportunity 
to use the language in familiar contexts independently. 
Interpretive listening and reading tasks are focused on literal 
comprehension with increasing emphasis on inferential 
interpretation. Students continue to explore the target culture 
in new contexts. The expectation is that the communication  
in the classroom (teacher-student and/or student-student) 
take place primarily in Mandarin. 
INTERMEDIATE MANDARIN CHINESE LANGUAGE ARTS
CHI351-SEMESTER 1  CHI352-SEMESTER 2
OPEN TO: 9-10-11-12 FULL YEAR
Prerequisite: Intermediate or higher proficiency in the domains 
of speaking and listening as demonstrated on Mandarin 
Chinese language proficiency assessment (e.g., AAPPL), teacher 
recommendation, or director approval
Credit: Accelerated
This course is designed specifically for students with lived 
Mandarin Chinese language experience, either from prior 
schooling in a Chinese-speaking country or as native/heritage 
speakers of Chinese. Students will develop their literacy 
skills in Chinese as they explore literature from the Chinese-
speaking world and engage in focused development of 
reading and writing skills. While special focus will be placed 
on developing foundational literacy skills (e.g., Mandarin 
character decoding and character writing), students will 
also develop critical thinking and oracy skills in Chinese as 
they collaboratively explore topics related to current events, 
culture and media.
MANDARIN CHINESE 4
DUAL CREDIT AVAILABLE WITH NORTH CENTRAL COLLEGE 
CHI411–Semester 1 CHI412–Semester 2
Open to: 10-11-12 Full Year 
Prerequisite: Mandarin Chinese 3 or passing the placement  
exam for Mandarin Chinese 4 and approval of director
Credit: Accelerated
Students continue to work to develop their competence in 
Mandarin Chinese across the three modes of communication 
in the context of the six AP themes. Performance-based 
assessments provide the students opportunity to use the 
language independently in unfamiliar contexts. Interpretive 
listening and reading tasks are focused on both literal and 
comprehension and inferential interpretation. Practice is 
provided regularly, both within the classroom and at home. 
Cultural information and comparisons are drawn from 
authentic print, literary works and class discussion. Students 
will participate in class debates and facilitate classroom 
discussion through their own student-led presentation. The 
expectation is that the communication in the classroom take 
place primarily in Chinese. This course begins preparation for 
the AP Chinese Language and Culture exam. 
LANGUAGE LEARNING—MANDARIN CHINESE76